Japan's northern island of Hokkaido has been hit by a powerful earthquake, triggering landslides that engulfed houses.

At least nine people have been killed and about 40 are missing, say local media reports.

The magnitude 6.7 quake cut power to around three million homes after a thermal power plant was damaged.

The earthquake comes on the heels of a deadly typhoon lashing the west of Japan over the past few days.

Jebi, the strongest typhoon to hit the country in 25 years, killed at least 10 people and caused widespread damage and disruption. 

The tremor struck 62km (39 miles) south-east of the regional capital Sapporo in the early hours of the morning.

It posed no tsunami risk, the country's meteorological agency said.

A nuclear plant - which was not operational - had to switch to its back-up power supply to keep spent fuel cool.

Local residents and travellers in the region have shared their shock about the quake on social media.

They also write about long lines at food stores as people stock up on supplies amid fears of more tremors. 

Authorities have warned of possible aftershocks and urged people to remain cautious.

"Large quakes often occur, especially within two to three days [of a big one]," Toshiyuki Matsumori of the meteorological agency said according to news agency AFP.

"We urge residents to pay full attention to seismic activity and rainfall and not to go into dangerous areas."

Japan is one of the world's most seismically active nations and accounts for around 20% of quakes worldwide of magnitude 6.0 or more.﻿Officials in Puerto Rico now say 2,975 people died following Hurricane Maria - a devastating storm that struck the US island territory in September 2017.

The revised death toll is nearly 50 times the previous estimate of 64.

Governor Ricardo Rossello "accepted" the findings in a long-awaited independent investigation.

The mayor of the capital, San Juan, accused the US government of deliberately downplaying the impact of the storm.

Puerto Rico has struggled to repair its infrastructure and power grid since the storm, and is asking US Congress for $139bn (£108bn) in recovery funds.

"I'm giving an order to update the official number of deaths to 2,975," Governor Ricardo Rossello told reporters on Tuesday. "Although this is an estimate, it has a scientific basis."

In a statement, the White House said the federal government supported the governor's efforts to "ensure a full accountability and transparency of fatalities" in the hurricane.

President Donald Trump was criticised for praising the federal response to the hurricane-ravaged island in the weeks following the storm. Critics accused him of showing more concern for residents in Texas and Florida after they were hit by hurricanes.

The authorities have faced criticism for underreporting the toll of Maria - the most powerful storm to hit the region in nearly 90 years.

Until now, the official figure was 64 - even though the island had previously acknowledged the death toll was probably much higher. In the wake of the disaster, some experts estimated as many as 4,600 deaths.

The latest findings - accepted by the island's authorities - were made in a report by experts from George Washington University, which the governor commissioned.

The government's initial number was for those killed directly by the hurricane, crushed by collapsing buildings, drowned or hit by flying debris.

But the new report also counted those who died in the six months following the storm as a result of poor healthcare provision and a lack of electricity and clean water. Repeated power cuts also led to an increased number of deaths from diabetes and sepsis.

"This shows the magnitude of the catastrophe," Governor Rossello told El Nuevo Dia newspaper.

When asked why his government was unable to recognise a higher death toll until now, he replied: "I am not perfect. I make mistakes. Now, hindsight tends to be 20-20."

He echoed one finding in the report - that doctors "lacked awareness" on how to appropriately certify deaths attributed to natural disasters. 

"The responsibility for adjudicating the cause of deaths rested with the doctors," Mr Rossello said. "But unfortunately there was no formal process to prepare them for this kind of devastation.

"At that moment, that was the number [of deceased] that we had and today we have the evidence which indicates the number was definitely higher."

San Juan Mayor Carmen Yulin Cruz told the BBC that there had been "neglect" by the Trump administration and some local officials hadn't wanted to confront the president about the need for more aid.

"It seemed like it was better to dance to President Trump's tune than to tell the truth that we were all seeing." she said.

"I did was I thought ought to be done as I screamed, literally, out of the top of my lungs to say 'We're dying here' and the bureaucracy and the inefficiency of the federal government was killing us."

For close to a year, Puerto Rico's government has clung to the idea that 64 people died as a result of Maria.

That figure was always risible - particularly when you consider that the 150 mph (241 km/h) winds caused around $90bn worth of damage and left households for, on average, 84 days without electricity; 64 days without water and 41 days without cellular telephone coverage.

In truth, the new official number is still an estimate - based on mortality data and taking into account historical data on migration patterns.

But the official recognition will allow the island to move on and focus fully on rebuilding its infrastructure and extracting the tens of billions of dollars needed from Congress to give the three million inhabitants of this already bankrupt territory something of a future.
What does the report say?

Researchers tracked the number of deaths using death certificates and other mortality data between mid-September 2017 to mid-February of this year. 

The Caribbean island is home to 3.3 million people, some 8% of which have since left the island, the study said.

It also said that those from poorer backgrounds in Puerto Rico were 45% more likely to have been killed in the aftermath of the hurricane.

The governor said he would sign an executive order to create a committee to examine and put into practice the report's recommendations.
Is this controversial?

Puerto Rico has been reeling ever since the storm struck - with residents still suffering blackouts, broken infrastructure and a lack of services.

Hurricane Maria caused the largest blackout in US history, according to research consultancy the Rhodium Group.

It is ranked as the third most financially costly cyclone in US history since 1900, yet its death toll is a third higher than the costliest - Hurricane Katrina in 2005, with an estimated 1,833.

The new study raises questions about President Trump's response to the disaster.

During a visit in October, Mr Trump had suggested officials should be "proud" the death toll - at the time only 16 - was not as high as "a real catastrophe" like Katrina.The death toll from the earthquake that struck northwest Haiti over the weekend has risen to 17, with nearly 350 others injured, the interior ministry said Tuesday.

Nine people were killed in the coastal city of Port-de-Paix, the closest major town to the quake's epicenter.

Seven more died in Gros-Morne, about 50 kilometers (30 miles) to the southeast and one was killed in the city of Saint-Louis du Nord, the ministry said.

Emergency personnel deployed to the quake zone have said roughly 7,800 homes were either destroyed or damaged in the 5.9-magnitude tremor, according to the authorities.

In Haiti, the poorest country in the Americas, building codes are often not respected, meaning that an earthquake of even a moderate size can result in fatalities and level buildings.

The country's Nord-Ouest department, where Port-de-Paix is located, is the worst-off part of Haiti, with many areas isolated due to the dire state of the roads.

The quake and several aftershocks were felt as far away as the capital Port-au-Prince, sparking fear among residents still reeling from the massive 2010 earthquake that left at least 200,000 people dead.

In the aftermath of the disastrous and historic flooding across western Japan, survivors and recovery crews will continue to face sweltering heat and humidity.

The death toll from flooding rose to 209 on Saturday with dozens more people still missing, according to the Japan Times.

This is the deadliest rain-related disaster in Japan since 1982 when more than 300 people were killed in Nagasaki and Kumamoto prefectures. The hardest-hit prefectures amid the current disaster are farther east in Hiroshima, Okayama and Ehime, though deaths have been reported in 14 prefectures.

The agriculture ministry assessed losses of at least $207 million on Friday, but that figure is expected to increase.

Through the middle of the week, extreme heat will pose a new threat across much of the country.

On Sunday, the Japan Times also reported that two people died as a result of the heat and another 2,061 others were hospitalized. The heat made it difficult to carry out relief efforts in areas recently hit by flooding.

The painstaking cleanup and recovery efforts will benefit from the largely dry weather that will dominate into the coming week.

Any rain in the flood-stricken areas is expected to be limited to a stray shower or thunderstorm, mainly in the afternoon and evening hours and over the higher terrain.

Even in areas that stay dry, there is a risk for more landslides due to the unstable ground.

"As dry weather dominates, temperatures will rise and create uncomfortable conditions for those without power or access to clean drinking water," AccuWeather Senior Meteorologist Eric Leister said.

High temperatures can soar between 32 and 37 C (90s F) in many of the lower elevations across western and southern Japan daily into the middle of the week. This includes Hiroshima, Osaka and Tokyo.

Sweltering humidity will push AccuWeather RealFeel Temperatures between 38 and 43 C (100 and 110 F) during the midday and afternoon hours.

Little relief will come at night as temperatures only drop between 22-26 C (70s F) as humidity remains.

Residents without air conditioning, as well as those still searching for the missing and partaking in the daunting cleanup operations will be at a higher risk for heat-related illnesses. More than 70,000 military troops, police and firefighters are part of the rescue and recovery mission.

Staying hydrated is key to avoiding heat exhaustion or stroke. However, more than 200,000 homes have been cut off from water in western Japan.

Some people already felt ill when standing in lines at a water supply truck. Power outages and lack of refrigerators have put residents in danger of food poisoning.

Unsanitary conditions that transpire without clean water put survivors at risk for other diseases.

Nearly 6,000 people are staying in evacuation centers, where there is a shortage of temporary toilets. Experts expressed concern to the Japan Times that people are not eating or drinking enough to avoid bathroom use, which is heightening the risk of dehydration and blood clots.

As the region begins the long road to recovery, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe announced that 71,000 buildings have been secured as temporary housing for the flood victims.

"The severe flooding resulted late last week as tropical moisture streamed across Japan in the days following the departure of Typhoon Prapiroon, which also unloaded rounds of heavy rain," Leister said.

The rain shattered records ranging from one-hour amounts to three-day totals.

The 84.5 mm (3.33 inches) that poured down in one hour on Friday in Ureshino broke the previous one-hour rain record from June 19, 2008. Mt. Ontakeyama in Nagano Prefecture topped the new records list for three-day rainfall totals with 655.5 mm (25.81 inches).

Numerous damaged bridges, roads and railroad tracks are making it difficult for residents to receive supplies and much-needed aid.

More than 100 points along the train tracks that run through western Japan have suffered damage, mostly due to landslides. The Japan Times stated that many of the lines affected by landslides are completely covered. There have been 619 landslides or other sediment disasters in total.

While the peak of the heat is expected to have passed, warm and humid conditions can still put a strain on flood victims and cleanup crews later in the week. There may also be a slight uptick in widely separated showers and thunderstorms during this time.﻿In the city’s outlying poorer neighbourhoods, meanwhile, work is in progress to stabilise the grassy hillside slopes with concrete, and to dig runoff channels to mitigate floods. The city has a mapthat evaluates risk down to individual buildings.

Sensors also provide automated, real-time analysis of floods and earthquakes.

“In the event of a quake, potential damages to buildings is calculated automatically, allowing authorities to begin deploying resources to the most affected areas in a matter of minutes,” says Mario Salgado-Gálvez, a Colombian seismic risk specialist. “Manizales is recognised around the world for its innovative approach to preventing and responding to disasters.”

The city’s particular success is based on policy, rather than technology. Colombia already requires all municipalities to undertake thorough risk assessments and mitigation activities – but disaster-risk reduction suffers from a lack of political will. Governors and mayors tend to view visible projects, such as schools or sports stadiums, as better investments for their own political prospects rather than spending on more prosaic disaster resilience, which pays off at some undefined point in the future. Nearly two-thirds of the regional land-use plans required by Colombia’s national system have yet to be implemented.

In Manizales, however, experience has bred community awareness.

“We’ve had to learn from our previous disasters,” says José Octavio Cardona, the city’s desk-thumping mayor, from a top-floor office that looks over the city towards the volcano. “Risk prevention has become part of our culture. Cit

izens understand the importance of investing in prevention.”

The city funds its projects through a variety of methods. There is an environmental tax. A cross-subsidised collective insurance premium is charged on properties, meaning higher-income sectors cover poorer groups. Tax breaks are also on offer to homeowners who reduce the vulnerability of their properties.

Each October the city holds “prevention week”, in which emergency drills are practised, not just for natural disasters, but for traffic accidents and fires, too. This year the focus is on training Caldas’s 60,000 schoolchildren – often the most vulnerable in a disaster – on how to react to earthquakes and landslides.

Complacency is the enemy. “Whatever we do is never enough,” says Cardona. In April 2017, intense rainfall caused more than 300 landslides and killed 17 people. Yet within a week, thanks to accurate warning and response systems, blocked roads were cleared and the city was functioning again. 

Nevertheless, reminders of the perils of unpreparedness are everywhere. One month previously, in the city of Mocoa in the country’s south, a similar storm resulted in one of the most deadly disasters in Colombia of the last decade, when landslides killed more than 250 people. Another 30,000 were evacuated and recovery efforts took close to six months.

Back in Rio Claro, the gutted shell of the church destroyed by the 1985 eruption is yet another reminder. Across the road, three black sirens have been erected to alert citizens in case of evacuation.

Arias now lives further up the mountain, in a new settlement, part of a relocation programme that has moved thousands of families out of flood-prone areas. She has been trained in how to respond to an emergency, and says she now feels far more prepared than she did in 1985. She thinks back to being reunited with her husband the day after the eruption.

“I thought he would be furious about the cockerel, but he just embraced me and told me the only thing that mattered was that I was safe.”Haitian officials on Sunday said at least 12 people died and 188 were injured in a 5.9-magnitude earthquake that rocked the northern portion of the island Saturday, leaving a swath of damaged and destroyed buildings and a fearful population.

The quake and three aftershocks, including one 5.2-magnitude aftershock on Sunday afternoon, are what seismic experts consider to be small to moderate.

And while the death toll, concentrated in the northwestern port city of Port-de-Paix, remained a tiny fraction of the more than 300,000 who died in Haitis 2010 earthquake, experts said it underscores their warnings about how vulnerable Haiti remains to seismic activity and the devastation a larger quake will most likely have.

There exists the possibility to have an earthquake up to a magnitude of 8, said Claude Prpetit, Haitis top earthquake expert who heads the countrys Bureau of Mines and Energy.

Prpetit, a geological engineer,said the only reason there werent more deaths and destruction is because the quake was a 5.9 on the Richter scale. But the deaths and damage to buildings even with a 5.9 quake, he said, show Haitis vulnerability, and the situation of the buildings isnt good at all.

If it was a 7, it would have been 40 times stronger than what we saw yesterday or if it was an 8, 900 times stronger, Prpetit told the Miami Herald in an interview from Port-au-Prince where tremors were also felt. It would have been considerable, even more catastrophic than January 12. The risk in Haiti exists for the greater

All of Haiti is in a risky zone, he said, noting that the bureau had registered 26 quakes between 2.9 and 4.6 on the Richter scale during the first eight months of this year alone.

Two fault lines running between Fond Parisien in the west, where Port-au-Prince is located, and Tiburon in the south, are truly dangerous and can produce an even more devastating earthquake than the one that happened on Jan. 12, 2010, that was a 7.0 magnitude quake, Prpetit said.

We cant say when it will happen or what magnitude it will be. The only way to diminish the destruction is through construction codes. The institutions that are here need to do controls. and apply the measures, he said. We also have to educate the population, especially the schools, to teach children how they should react.

He reiterated an earlier call he had made for an evaluation of older construction and public buildings like police stations and hospitals.

This will cost money and it will take time, but we have to start so that we can minimize the damage before the next big earthquake happens, Prpetit said..

Saturdays earthquake happened shortly after 8 p.m., triggering panic in and around Port-de-Paix, a coastal city with a population of 462,000 that was spared in 2010. Unsure what to do, many residents ran out into streets. Among the dead: a young man who fell off a balcony in the pandemonium. He was dead by the time he arrived at the emergency room of a government-run hospital Immaculee de Conception, where doctors and staff had fled. A 7-year-old child also died after a wall fell on him.

On Sunday morning, as disaster volunteers with the Office of Civil Protection continued search and rescue efforts throughout the northwest and areas of Gros Morne in the Artibonite, Port-de-Paix police were attempting to remove the childs lifeless body from underneath the rubble. The main police station was among the buildings that suffered damages.

Things are terrible in Port-de-Paix even if what happened here is not the same as what happened in Port-au-Prince in 2010, said Claudedan Borge, a local resident who lived through the 2010 earthquake in Port-au-Prince and said he relocated to the northwestern port city because he thought it was safe. Its so grave and terrible... I dont feel well. Im traumatized. I never thought I would live through something like this again.

Heavy rain hampered efforts to assess damages and rescue the injured overnight, and added to the sense of fear.

Borge said people didnt know what to do, afraid to go inside in case another quake hit. They had no choice but to just stand in the rain.

The United Nations and the U.S. Embassy in Port-au-Prince both issued condolence statements while aid organizations announced the deployment of teams into the northwest to determine needs.

Haitian President Jovenel Moise, who is from the region  along with his wife  visited Port-de-Paix Sunday. Moise said Haiti welcomed the solidarity of the international community, but it will take the lead in coordinating any response.

The prime minister is working to get all of the documentation, Moise said, so that the government could speak with the international community and the government can tell the international community, Here is what our problems are. Here are the solutions that we have started to put in place, and if we need help, to tell them in what sense we need it.

Haitis national police were instructed Sunday by the government to stop vehicles carrying humanitarian aid to the quake victims without written authorization from the countrys civil protection department.

Frank Gacon, an engineer who is employed with Haitis public works department, said as his fellow workers and disaster volunteers from the Office of Civil Protection fanned out across the city to assess the damage, they saw that the majority of damaged or destroyed homes had been constructed haphazardly and had not followed construction norms.

He described a chaotic scene during the quake, even as his oldest son was injured by debris that grazed his head. The majority of the people who were victims were people who ran, jumped and fell, Gacon said.

Last month during a climate change conference alongside the United Nations General Assembly, Moise said during a speech that Haiti was better prepared for an earthquake today than it had been in 2010. Prpetit said the country does have more knowledge about seismic activity thanks to monitoring devices throughout the country.

But preparedness requires a process that is very long. A huge effort needs to take place as far as the construction of buildings, and education, he said. We cannot say that we are 100 percent prepared. Its a long process.

Haitis parliament still has not voted a 2012 national building code into law. And there is no inspection process in place to ensure that new construction is quake resistant  despite efforts in recent years to show Haitians how to construct buildings that can withstand earthquakes.

Also, older buildings, which are all over the northern region, have not been reinforced.

A huge earthquake could always cause those buildings to collapse, Prpetit said. There have been studies that have been done that show the kind of soil we have in the north is not very good....a lot of studies have shown that the risks are grave if there is a huge earthquake.

Prpetit and other seismic experts said the fact many peoples first reaction was to run rather than to duck under a table or something strong to shield them from falling debris shows that Haiti has not done enough to prepare itself.

There are several aspects to being more quake resistant, said Reginald Desroches, the dean of engineering at Rice University in Houston, who has visited Haiti frequently since 2010 to lend his expertise on preparedness and construction. You dont run outside, which people often do, and things fall on them. People need to be better trained.

He warned that Haiti really needs to start taking this seriously before a larger event. Its just a race against time before a larger earthquake hits the country again.

﻿At least 21 children and five adults died at a primary school which collapsed in Mexico City during Tuesday's quake, the government says.

The shallow, 7.1 magnitude quake killed at least 230 people in total and caused major damage across states in the centre of the country.

Desperate searches for survivors under the rubble are continuing.

Hopes rose at the school when a girl was located alive and a delicate operation to rescue her is under way.

Dozens of buildings collapsed across the country, including several churches where worshippers were killed.

Families with young children could be seen sleeping outside their homes in the street in the capital.

President Enrique Pena Nieto has declared three days of mourning.

The tremor struck shortly after many people had taken part in an earthquake drill, exactly 32 years after another quake killed thousands in the capital. 

Mexico is prone to earthquakes and earlier this month an 8.1 magnitude tremor in the south left at least 90 people dead.

Though it struck a similar region, Tuesday's earthquake does not appear to be connected with the quake on 7 September, which was at least 30 times more energetic, the BBC's Jonathan Amos writes.

Enrique Rebsamen primary school, in Mexico City's southern Coapa district, collapsed.

Confirming the death toll, Education Minister Aurelio said 11 people had been rescued while two children and an adult were missing. 



Local media had reported a higher death toll earlier.

More than 500 members of the army and navy,

along with 200 police officers and volunteers, have been working at the site, Mexican newspaper Milenio says.

Details of the girl located on Wednesday have not been given. Rescuers detected her after she moved her hand and a hose was lowered to supply her with water.

Civil Protection volunteer Enrique Gardia told the assembled crowd that a thermal scanner had detected several survivors trapped between slabs of concrete.

"They are alive! Alive!" he shouted.

"Someone hit a wall several times in one place, and in another there was a response to light signals with a lamp," he added.

One mother, standing nearby waiting for news of her seven-year-old daughter, told reporters: "No-one can possibly imagine the pain I'm in right now."

At least 209 schools were affected by the quake, 15 of which have suffered severe damage.The first ever "catastrophic" bushfire warning in Queensland, Australia, prompted a large-scale evacuation on Wednesday. The main town under threat was spared, but the intensity of fire conditions has caused concern.

As the sky blackened and her horses whinnied in the smoke, Fayleen Zemlicoff debated the "very last minute" she could remain at home.

Ferocious winds were flicking embers from a bushfire towards her. The smoke was so intense it was "like a volcano had gone off", she said.

But she and her adult daughter, Anja, were trying frantically to load the horses into a vehicle. Unsettled, the animals were resisting.

Ultimately the pair, along with three elderly relatives, made a choice to leave. 

Ms Zemlicoff put her phone number on slips of paper, and tied them to the horses' manes.

"To drive away and not know what we would come home to, whether the animals would survive... it was a heartbreaking decision," she told the BBC. Fortunately, all of the horses survived.

The family were among as many as 8,000 locals who evacuated from the Queensland town of Gracemere late on Wednesday, after receiving an evacuation order.

"This fire was just something that's never happened to us before," Ms Zemlicoff said.

"But we are in drought, and everything around us is dry, dry, dry."

Lance Jones, a farmer, said he had never witnessed such panic in the town in his 30 years living there.

Three years ago, Gracemere was among the towns battered by a powerful cyclone which left widespread damage.

But Mr Jones said that natural disaster had not "scared us to the point of evacuation".

Ms Zemlicoff and her family stayed at a motel in nearby Rockhampton, as fire crews battled through the night.

"We have saved the town of Gracemere," Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk declared on Thursday morning.

The success has been attributed, in large part, to the efforts of firefighters and computer modelling of the blaze's path.

The threat to Queensland was not over, however, the premier said. More than 100 fires remained burning across Queensland on Thursday, fuelled by strong winds, a heatwave and a long dry spell.

Authorities have called the conditions "unprecedented" in Queensland.

The evacuation of Gracemere was the first time a "catastrophic" fire warning - the highest level - had been issued in the state.

"What we experienced yesterday was off the charts," Ms Palaszczuk said.

"Nobody has recorded these conditions any time in the history of Queensland. And we are still not out of the woods."
Why is this unusual?

Unlike in Australia's drier south, intense fire conditions are unusual in central Queensland in late November - typically the start of the wet season.

But existing ideas about threat periods are being challenged, experts say.

"There is always an amount of variability in fire seasons each year, but research is showing that fire seasons are lengthening," said Dr Richard Thornton, the chief executive of the Bushfire and Natural Hazard Cooperative Research Centre.

"[It is] now to the extent that we are now seeing a year-round fire season in Australia."

Dr Samantha Lloyd, manager of the South East Queensland Fire and Biodiversity Consortium, said central Queensland had experienced fires "around this time" previously.

But what's concerning, she said, was that "we just don't generally see this intensity of fire weather".

Dr Lloyd noted that climate change modelling had pointed to increasingly frequent and severe weather events.

"We usually only have one to two extreme fire days in a year, and now we've had something like three to four in just a few days," she said. ﻿ KAMPALA, UGANDA — 

At least 34 people have died in mudslides triggered by torrential rains in a mountainous area of eastern Uganda that is prone to such disasters, a Red Cross official said Friday.

More victims are likely to be discovered when rescue teams access all the affected areas in the foothills of Mount Elgon, said Red Cross spokeswoman Irene Nakasiita.

People were killed by boulders and chunks of mud rolling down hills following a sustained period of heavy rains Thursday afternoon in the district of Bududa. Houses were destroyed in at least three villages, and in some cases only body parts of the victims have been recovered from the mud, she said.

“We expect the death toll to increase as some people are still missing,” she said. “It’s really bad.”

A river than runs through the area burst its banks, destroying a bridge and threatening settlements nearby, according to Martin Owor, a government commissioner in charge of disaster management.

In March 2010 at least 100 people died in similar mudslides in Bududa, and injuries or deaths have been reported every year since then during the wet season.

At least 31 bodies had been recovered and identified in this latest disaster, Owor said.

Efforts by Uganda’s government over the years to relocate all residents away from steep slopes have not succeeded. There also have been calls for people to plant more trees on steep hillsides.
﻿On Aug. 5, a 6.9-magnitude earthquake ruptured the northern reaches of the Indonesian island of Lombok, killing at least 319 people, displacing more than 160,000, destroying tens of thousands of homes, and burying villagers beneath the rubble of mosques and other structures. The disaster struck exactly one week after a foreshock clocked in with a strength of 6.4-magnitude and left 20 people dead.

Lombok, which is especially popular among tourists visiting the tropical Gili Islands off its northwestern coast, lies in the center of the Indonesian archipelago, where thousands of volcano-pocked isles mark the western periphery of the Pacific Ring of Fire. This horseshoe-shaped strip curves loosely from the waters east of Australia, over maritime Southeast Asia, up the coasts of China and Russia, and down the west coast of the Americas from Alaska to Chile. Roughly 81% of the most powerful earthquakes ever recorded happened along this volatile rim.

The Lombok earthquakes, while disastrous, were nowhere near as destructive as some of Asia’s earlier shocks. But scenes of villagers in mourning, rescuers scrambling through debris, hordes of tourists crowded on a beach, desperate to escape their idyllic destination — all serve as a reminder that this region of the world is a hotbed of seismic activity that can quickly turn tragic. With cities, dams and other infrastructure built atop some of the world’s most active faults, six of the ten deadliest quakes in recorded history happened in Asia, as did many of the most costly. Here’s a look at back at some of the most devastating temblors ever to strike the continent.
The 1556 Shaanxi Earthquake, China

More than 830,000 people died in the days after Jan. 23, 1556, when central China was struck by the deadliest earthquake ever recorded.

With an epicenter in the Wei River Valley, the 8-magnitude quake reverberated throughout 10 provinces — even damaging buildings in cities hundreds of miles away. It may have killed about 60% of the population in some of the worst hit counties. The horrific death toll is largely due to the collapse of several cliffs in the Loess Plateau, where many people lived in “house caves” called yaodongs. These traditional hillside dwellings, carved into the earth to create temperate caverns, crumbled to dust as the mountains shook. Landslides wiped away entire settlements.

The rupture is often referred to as the “Jiajing Great Earthquake,” a reference to the eponymous emperor of the Ming Dynasty who ruled at the time. It would be impossible to calculate the damage by modern monetary values, but its cost of human life is unmatched. Another devastating temblor struck the neighboring province of Ningxia in 1920, however, killing more than 200,000 people and making it among China’s deadliest disasters.
The 1934 Nepal-Bihar Earthquake

Some six miles south of Mount Everest, the earth began to rumble on the afternoon of Jan. 15, 1934. Little was left in the wake of Nepal’s worst recorded earthquake, a powerful 8.1-magnitude, that leveled most of three major cities in the Kathmandu Valley and tore through parts of North and Northeast India. An estimated 10,700 to 12,000 people were killed by the quake that severed hundreds of miles of terrain from Bihar to Assam.

Surrounded by rubble near the Nepali capital, one structure remained remarkably intact: the Temple of Pashupati, the nation’s guardian deity, was reportedly untouched. Elsewhere, sand and water rose up from fissures in the ground, softening a 186-mile stretch of land to a soup now known as the “slump belt.” Some accounts describe buildings sinking down into the mud and floating away from their foundations.

Most of the deaths were in northern India’s Bihar, where 7,253 people reportedly died. Mahatma Gandhi visited affected areas shortly after. His reflections on the tragedy, which he characterized as divine retribution for India’s caste system, sparked a moral debate about the status and treatment of what he termed harijans, the lowest class in Indian society more commonly known as Dalits or “untouchables.”

The disaster was chronicled in a book by Major General Brahma Shamsher titled The Great Earthquake of Nepal 1990 (the country’s calendar is 56 years ahead of Gregorian dates), reportedly first published in 1935. His compilation of first-hand accounts and unparalleled details about the Nepalese Army’s relief efforts were republished in the wake of Nepal’s devastating 2015 quake.
The 1976 Tangshan Earthquake, China

Most of Tangshan was fast asleep when the world came crashing down around them. At 3:43 a.m. on July 28, 1976, the industrial city in northeastern China’s Hebei Province was struck by a 7.6-magnitude quake that wiped out more than a third of its entire population. The official death toll rests around 242,000, though by some estimates fatalities may have reached 655,000, according to the U.S. Geological Survey.

News of the event traveled slowly, and so did relief. Railroads, bridges and highways were rendered impassable, and survivors later recalled being trapped under mounds of bricks waiting to be saved. Roughly 80% of the buildings citywide were said to have been flattened or severely damaged; the extent of destruction largely attributed to Tangshan’s complete unpreparedness for catastrophe despite its being built directly atop a known active fault line.

Seismic shifts were also taking place within the ruling Communist Party of China at the time disaster struck; just months prior, the death of Premier Zhou Enlai precipitated a leadership scramble as party Chairman Mao Zedong’s health deteriorated and his Cultural Revolution was in its last act. Mao died about six weeks after the earthquake, and his successor Hua Guofeng preemptively seized on the issue to consolidate support, reportedly making a personal visit in early August.

Chinese officials rejected assistance from abroad and international media was not allowed access. According to a report published by TIME 23 years after the tragedy, the leftist political faction latched onto the crisis to reinforce their authority:

    They refused offers of aid from international organizations and launched a campaign entitled Resist the Earthquake, Rescue Ourselves. Doctors and soldiers were sent in from all over the country. Injured residents were evacuated, often to distant hospitals, while provincial governments sheltered thousands of orphaned children. Temporary shanties sprang up throughout the devastated city and beyond. An infant born on the day of the disaster was famously named Xiedang: Thank you, party.

Nonetheless, the years that followed were beset by political rivalries that led to the downfall of the Maoist Gang of Four, the end of the Cultural Revolution and the resumption of power by reformist Deng Xiaopeng.

The Tangshan earthquake was the subject of a 2006 novel by Zhang Ling titled Aftershock, later adapted to the silver screen by director Feng Xiaogang. The film’s revised narrative followed the lead characters’ lives several decades down the line, when another calamitous quake hit central China’s Sichuan Province.
The 2001 Gujarat Earthquake, India

It had happened several times before, but the tremors of 1819 and 1956 paled in comparison to the 7.6-magnitude shock that felled swaths of the fast-growing state of Gujarat on Jan. 26, 2001. At least 20,000 people are believed to have died and hundreds of thousands of buildings destroyed in the strongest earthquake to strike the westernmost state of India in almost a century.

The district of Bhuj was hardest hit, some 12 miles away from the epicenter. Nearby rural villages were reportedly completely flattened, and some believe the death toll to be higher than official estimates because it was common for some poor villagers to live their entire lives without ever being officially recognized by the government; no birth certificate, no identification card, no record of ever existing. TIME reported from the scene in the days after the quake that there was “no escaping stench of dead and burning flesh,” as bodies were quickly burned to prevent the spread of disease.

    The main road from the airport has a 12-inch gash in the middle, and every so often, the ground still heaves. Along the road, the remnants of houses lie broken. There are piles of chopped wood, in preparation for the mass cremation in the evening when more bodies have been pulled out of the rubble. People are living on the streets, the women inside makeshift enclosures of tied sheets or saris.

The 2004 Indian Ocean Earthquake and Tsunami, Sumatra, Indonesia

Nineteen miles below sea level in the early hours of Dec. 26, 2004, a 9.1-magnitude earthquake shook the seas near the coast of Sumatra, in the northwestern reaches of the Indonesian archipelago. Over the days that followed, shockwaves caused by the quake slammed into shorelines as far afield as South Africa, some 5,300 miles away.

Fishermen manning their boats in the waters near Indonesia, Thailand, Malaysia, Sri Lanka and elsewhere saw the tides being sucked into the sea. Not long after, waves as high as 100 feet overhead came rushing toward the coastlines, turning cities into swamps full of corpses and sodden debris.

More than 227,000 people were declared dead or missing in the weeks after the tragedy that affected 14 countries across two continents. One week after the tsunami struck, as survivors on disparate coasts sifted through wreckage for remains, a fisherman named Bustami from the Sumatran village of Bosun described the event to TIME:

    At first, Bustami saw water retreat from shore, with fish jumping around on the empty beaches. Then, he says, “I heard this strange thunderous sound from somewhere, a sound I’d never heard before. I thought it was the sound of bombs.” The water rose behind him as high as the coconut trees on the shoreline, and he was thrown off his boat. “It felt like doomsday,” says Bustami, who, after clinging to a coconut tree, was eventually picked up by a soldier three hours later, almost 2 miles away from where he had lost his boat.

No other tsunami in recorded history was as deadly, with victims from all over the world counted among the casualties. Waves wiped out villages, cities, luxury getaways, schools and hospitals. Survivors clung to palm trees as sweeping floodwaters rushed past full of broken glass, car parts and corpses. When the waters slowed and receded, survivors and rescuers trudged through the waterlogged wreckage sometimes to find they were standing on top of dead bodies. Mangroves, coral reefs and marine life were wrecked, leaving a lasting mark on the environment and regional economies.

But the legacy of the tsunami transcended its path of destruction. Governments throughout the world pooled together some $14 billion in aid for affected regions. Shorelines rebuilt in the following years were marked with warnings, signs pointing to pathways toward higher ground, and an Indian Ocean Tsunami Warning System came online in 2006. “I didn’t know what a tsunami was… nobody did,” a survivor in the Thai resort town of Khao Lak told TIME ten years later. Today, they know.
The 2008 Sichuan Earthquake, China

A decade on, the earthquake that rocked China’s Sichuan province on May 12, 2008, still looms large in the nation’s memory. While the 7.9-magnitude earthquake didn’t break records in terms of its strength, it left behind a devastating impact on the loss of human life and a prolonged aftermath.

More than 87,000 people were reported killed and missing, as well as 4.8 million rendered homeless from the quake’s destruction. In terms of economic losses, the quake was the second highest in absolute numbers in history, and was one of the few instances in recent history where China requested international aid and assistance to help with the mammoth recovery effort, with an estimated $137.5 billion spent on rebuilding the affected areas.

As the Chinese government responded to the disaster under international media scrutiny, questions surfaced about the poor infrastructure in the affected region. According to UNICEF, more than 18,000 schools across Sichuan and neighboring Gansu province were damaged as the earthquake struck in the afternoon on a school day, killing thousands of children. Allegations quickly arose that shoddy construction was to blame for the quake’s effect on schools, and that corrupt local officials had permitted the neglect of building safety regulations. Scientists have also suggested that a nearby hydropower dam may have affected the timing and intensity of the quake through a phenomenon known as Reservoir-Induced Seismicity.

One year on from the quake in May 2009, TIME spoke to prominent Chinese artist and activist Ai Weiwei, who strongly advocated for the parents of children killed in the tragedy. As TIME reported:

    Ai’s interest in the issue began when he visited the earthquake zone weeks after the event and saw firsthand the suffering of its victims and particularly of those who had lost children. He began to write extensively about the issue on his blog — already one of the country’s most popular — and soon found readers volunteering to help him in an attempt to record the exact number of students who had been killed. It’s a project Ai says he will continue until “we find the last name, or I am dead.”

Official counts were not released until one year on from the quake, placing the number of student deaths at 5,335. However, parents and activists disputed its accuracy, arguing that the figure was closer to 10,000.

The tenth anniversary of the tragedy was marked earlier this year, with reports suggesting that the Chinese government highlighted more positive repercussions of the quake, such as praising the army’s response and the spirit of the volunteers that aided the recovery effort. But the impact of the earthquake in Sichuan and beyond is still profound, particularly for the parents still searching for answers and the survivors of the disaster.
The 2011 Tōhoku Earthquake and Tsunami, Japan

A magnitude 9.0 earthquake struck Japan’s northeastern coast and Tōhoku region on March 11, 2011, triggering a tsunami with catastrophic consequences. It was the fifth-largest quake in the world since 1900, and its power even impacted the earth’s gravitational field, rattling a satellite orbiting at the outer edge of Earth’s atmosphere.

The quake caused a tsunami which slammed Japan’s coastline with waves of more than 32 feet high, and travelled some 6.2 miles inland. Nearly 20,000 people were confirmed dead and 2,500 missing in the disaster. A third crisis erupted when the pressure levels at the region’s Fukushima nuclear power plant reached much higher than normal due to the forces of the tsunami waves. In the days following the quake, explosions at the plant led to the release of radiation in the surrounding areas and mass evacuations. In April, the crisis at Fukushima was raised to a level 7 disaster on the International Nuclear Event Scale, joining only one other event in this category: the 1986 disaster at the Chernobyl plant in the former Soviet Union.

As TIME reported from Japan one month on from the disaster:

    …the country’s struggle between its technological heart and natural soul continues. Brave workers are racing to limit the dangers from the radiation-spewing Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant, which was damaged by the natural disaster. Farmers near the radiation zone have been forced to dump tainted milk and produce. And fishermen can no longer depend on the ocean’s generosity since their boats were smashed into splinters.

The disaster remains the costliest earthquake in the world, with material damage estimated at about $300 billion according to CNN. More than 70,000 people remain displaced from their communities seven years on from the triple tragedy. Tokyo will play host to the 2020 Olympics, and the event’s organizing committee announced last month that the traditional Olympic torch relay will start from Fukushima to mark the events of 2011 and showcase the region’s recovery.
The 2015 Nepal Earthquake

It was no secret that Nepal was vulnerable to deadly disaster, and the 7.8-magnitude quake that struck near the district of Lamjung on April 24, 2015, proved decades of warnings tragically prescient. For about 50 seconds, the ground shook intensely and brought buildings tumbling down across the impoverished Himalayan countryside and through the heart of the capital.

Then came the aftershocks. A 6.9-magnitude tremor the following day triggered a landslide on nearby Mount Everest, killing 21 people in the single deadliest day on the world’s highest mountain. More than 150 others died when a second earthquake struck along the very same fault line on May 12, while rescuers were still trying to deliver assistance to those affected by the initial shock.

Nearly 9,000 people were killed in the disaster, and millions were made homeless in an instant. The remote locations of the hardest hit areas made rescue and relief operations extremely difficult, while most of those affected were already poor rural villagers with few services and little to no infrastructure.

A multinational relief effort was launched to assist Nepal, one of the poorest countries in Asia, with the gargantuan task of locating affected populations and providing medical assistance and clean water as the risk of infectious disease loomed large. But reconstruction proved the most difficult task in a country with low GDP, poor infrastructure and an inefficient bureaucracy; total damages have been estimated at 7 to 10 billion dollars.

One year after the quake, TIME visited the still devastated district of Sindhupalchok, finding little progress had been made. Ram Giri, a truck driver who lost his home and his job to the crisis, described his life in the wake of the catastrophe. The only work left for him, he said at the time, was a bit of manual labor here and there.

    “It’s mostly removing rubble leftover from last year,” he says. “At the end of the month, we now have $30, maybe $40, for a family of four. Our home has been destroyed. Who knows when the government will rebuild it. They say they will give us money to rebuild it. When? Next year?”

﻿The latest report from Puerto Rico’s planning board paints a grim picture, estimating the impact of Hurricane Maria on the island’s economy at $43 billion, $1 billion more than the original assessment.

A local economist says the actual number could be more than three times that amount.

As the U.S. territory tries to recover from the devastation inflicted by two major hurricanes in the same month – Irma delivered a glancing blow on Sept. 6, 2017, followed by a direct hit from Maria two weeks later – authorities have been trying to measure their effects on an economy that was already shrinking.

The board said it arrived at the $43 billion figure in part via questionnaires issued to the public and private sectors as well as statistics provided by professional associations through October.

“Given the magnitude of the natural disaster, the economic sectors will keep feeling the impact for an undetermined amount of time,’’ says the report, which took into consideration the millions of dollars received to date in federal recovery funds and insurance payments.

But a study commissioned by the Puerto Rican economic consulting firm H. Calero assesses the economic impact at $139 billion, potentially up to $159 billion.

“It’s not clear what they included in that estimate,’’ company president Heidie Calero said. “Maybe all their numbers are compatible and have a rational explanation, but they need to be more transparent in what methodology they used, what were the sources of their information, and whether that was their preliminary estimate of damages and the number will grow as time goes on.’’﻿

Here is some background information about the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami. On December 26, 2004, an earthquake with an estimated magnitude of 9.1 struck the coast of Sumatra, Indonesia.

National Centers for Environmental Information Statistics:
227,898 people were killed or listed as missing and presumed dead.

Material losses in the Indian Ocean region were $10 billion.

Facts:
Tsunamis are formed by a displacement of water – a landslide, volcanic eruption, or, as in this case, slippage of the boundary between two of the earth’s tectonic plates – slabs of rock 50 to 650 feet (15 to 200 meters) thick that carry the Earth’s continents and seas on an underground ocean of much hotter, semi-solid material.

The December 26, 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami was caused by slippage of about 600 miles (1,000 kilometers) of the boundary between the India and Burma plates off the west coast of northern Sumatra. The convergence of other plates strains the area, and at the quake’s epicenter, the India plate is moving to the northeast at 2 inches (5 centimeters) per year relative to the Burma plate. The aftershocks were distributed along the plate boundary from the epicenter to near Andaman Island.

The 9.1 magnitude earthquake was the strongest since the March 28, 1964 quake in Prince William Sound in Alaska. It was the third-strongest since 1900.

The two stronger earthquakes, May 22, 1960 in Chile (9.5) and March 28, 1964 in Alaska (9.2), also produced tsunamis.
﻿Japan's weather agency has declared a heatwave sweeping the country a natural disaster, with at least 65 deaths recorded in the past week.

An agency spokesman warned that "unprecedented levels of heat" were being seen in some areas.

More than 22,000 people have been taken to hospital with heat stroke, nearly half of them elderly, officials say.

On Monday, the city of Kumagaya reported a temperature of 41.1C (106F), the highest ever recorded in Japan.

The heatwave shows no sign of abating, forecasters say.

In central Tokyo, temperatures over 40C were also registered for the first time.

The Japan Meteorological Agency warned that temperatures of 35C or higher would continue until early August.

"We are observing unprecedented levels of heat in some areas," spokesman Motoaki Takekawa said, adding that the heatwave was "a threat to life and we recognise it as a natural disaster".

In Ibaraki prefecture, north of Tokyo, a 91-year-old woman was found collapsed in a field and later pronounced dead in hospital. In nearby Saitama two elderly women were found dead in their homes.

With less than half of Japan's public schools equipped with air conditioning, government spokesman Yoshihide Suga said the summer holidays could be extended to protect pupils.

"As a record heatwave continues to blanket the country, urgent measures are required to protect the lives of schoolchildren," he told a news conference on Tuesday.

The public is being advised to drink plenty of water, to use air conditioning and to rest often.

People in some cities have taken part in an event known as uchimizu, or "water ceremony" - pouring or sprinkling cold water on to the hot pavements in an attempt to cool them.

The heatwave closely followed torrential rain that caused severe flooding and landslides in the west of Japan.

Where else has experienced severe heat?

    Greece is in the grip of deadly wildfires as soaring temperatures continue across much of Europe
    In Sweden at least one person has been killed and dozens more injured by forest fires. Hot weather and persistent drought have seen wildfires raging as far north as the Arctic Circle
    Neighbouring Norway experienced its hottest May temperatures on record and has also suffered forest fires
    Parts of the UK are also experiencing a prolonged heatwave and the government has issued a "heat-health watch" alert in the east and south-east of England
    Cities across eastern Canada suffered a deadly heatwave in early July, with at least 70 deaths in Quebec province alone
    A heatwave in Southern California saw record-breaking temperatures in some areas including a sweltering 48.9C (120F) in Chino, outside Los Angeles
    Reports from Algeria say that Africa's hottest ever recorded temperature was registered in the northern city of Ouargla on 5 July - 51.3C (124.3F)
﻿I first became aware of the environmental crisis facing Freetown while living there in the summer of 2006.

That year, the rains that usually begin towards the end of April came late. As May became June, Sierra Leone's government began to ration drinking water from the Guma Dam, the primary water source for the capital.

By July, Guma had fallen to its lowest level since records began.

I watched in disbelief as people on the streets of the nation's capital scooped water out of sewage ditches to take home and boil, and helped the family I was living with build a rainwater capture system on their rooftop.

In the end, the rains came, but the implications were alarming. Population growth, deforestation and lack of planning were bringing Freetown to the brink of sustainability.

Loss of forest cover affects the capacity of the hills to absorb rainwater and control its flow. But water shortages were only part of the problem. Heavy runoff and siltation of the city's drainage system, coupled with poor waste management, were leading to flooding in urban slums during the rains.

Up in the hills, multistorey houses were being built on perilously steep slopes once covered by trees.

Shortly after I returned, I began to work with architect and filmmaker Nazia Parvez on Lost Freetown, a documentary film that sounded a stark warning of where the city was headed.

Nazia's film was completed and screened to NGOs and local stakeholders, to a positive response.

But little was done to address the problems.

Land was - and still is - doled out freely by politicians to their loyalists. Permits and paperwork are issued regardless of the location of the property being built. Shacks that are marked for demolition remain standing, and catchment areas are encroached upon with impunity.

In October 2017, I flew to Sierra Leone to film the aftermath of the worst natural disaster the country has ever seen.

The causes of the landslide, which had killed 1,141 people and struck a crippling blow to the community of Regent, were hotly debated.

The mayor of Freetown, bizarrely, suggested an earthquake. Some thought it was an act of God: a once in a lifetime event with no precedent and no significance.

But there were others who knew the truth. They saw a link to the flooding and water shortages that now affect Freetown every year. They remembered the landscape of the Freetown peninsula before the civil war drove people to the city: a landscape of dense forests and clear streams.

Today, those tracts of forest are being stripped from the hillsides, leaving bare and eroded peaks that shed their silt when the rains fall. And the rains themselves, driven by climate change, are getting worse.

Of those who have spoken out, the most passionate and committed has been Bala Amarasekaran, founder and director of the Tacugama Chimpanzee Sanctuary. An accountant by training, Bala converted to conservation after adopting a baby chimp, and set up Tacugama to protect the species. The sanctuary grew, and Bala's cause soon moved beyond chimps and towards wider protection for Sierra Leone's environment. 

Two weeks before the landslide, Bala and his team stood beneath the Sugarloaf Mountain in Regent and told local school students about the dangers of deforestation, of the risks of landslides, of the importance of the peninsula forest in providing clean water for the people.

They delivered their message to school kids, in part because they knew those in power would not listen.

Two weeks later, dozens of those same children were dead - lost beneath the thousands of tonnes of earth and stone that slipped off the mountainside on the morning of August 14.

The staff at Tacugama were among the first to respond: setting up relief stations where displaced people could be fed and raising money for those orphaned by the disaster to continue their education.

Visiting London following the tragedy, Bala joked that he was glad he wasn't in Sierra Leone "or I'd be in jail by now."

Fiercely outspoken, he had little time for the crocodile tears shed by government officials in the wake of the disaster - a disaster that was easily foreseen.

The laws in Sierra Leone, he points out, are on the books. The institutions and ministries are there and are staffed in many cases by educated and sympathetic people who understand the issues, but corruption and lack of political will have stifled any efforts to move forward.

There is no silver bullet that would have prevented the Regent landslide - no single cause for the disaster.

A report by the World Bank points to a complex of issues that caused the slope to collapse: record-breaking rainfall and the nature of the slope itself played a major part, compounded by human interference.

Landslides have happened in the past, although none have caused such catastrophic loss of life.

But the links between what happened last August and the wider issues facing Freetown is undeniable. These problems are not insurmountable.

Sierra Leone does not have a population problem. Vast empty plains stand outside the city, ripe for development and human habitation. With planning and help, trees can grow back quickly - as Bala has proved again and again.

Nor is Sierra Leone unique. Similar problems are faced elsewhere in Africa, and other countries have overcome them in the past. But the relationship between Freetown and the forested peninsula that surrounds it is acute.

The country is poor, and climate change is looming. Action is needed now.

The international community has rushed to the aid of those affected by the landslide, and rightly so. But it is Sierra Leone's political and professional class that have the biggest role to play in solving these problems.

To neglect the situation further will only increase the cost in years to come, a cost the country is ill-equipped to pay. Those with a proven commitment to Sierra Leone's future and to solving the challenges that lie ahead must be listened to, and we should support them at every turn.﻿(NEW YORK) — The nation saw multiple, unprecedented natural disasters this year, from the deadliest wildfire in California’s history to the worst hurricane to hit the East Coast since 1969.

Reports from the National Centers for Environmental Information have found that climate change plays a major role in causing natural disasters to be more intense, destructive and costly to the country, a National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration spokesperson told ABC News. Hurricanes Michael and Florence both set records in several states.

“Climate change increases the probability that you’re going to see these kinds of storms,” Dr. David Easterling, a physical scientist with NOAA’s National Centers for Environmental Information, said of hurricanes Florence and Michael.

“The fact that Florence brought so much flooding was likely due to the warmer atmosphere,” Easterling explained, and while an individual hurricane “is not necessarily due to climate change,” he said an increase in strength — like the record high winds seen in Michael — can be linked to climate change. ”

“We expect to see not necessarily more… but the ones that we do have are going to be more powerful,” Easterling said. “You’re going to have stronger winds and heavier rain. And on top of that, as sea level continue to rise, then storm surge from those storms will also get worse.”

Increasingly powerful storms can mean both higher death tolls and more devastation. In the fourth National Climate Assessment released on Nov. 23, 13 federal agencies estimated that the the U.S. could lose as much as 10 percent of its GDP by the end of the century.

Here is a look back at the human and financial toll of five of the biggest natural disasters to devastate the U.S. in 2018.

January: Montecito mudslides

Rain and mudslides hit wildfire-scarred areas of Montecito, California, in January, flattening homes and covering freeways. Twenty-one people were killed, including children and the elderly.

Montecito saw more than half an inch of rain fall in just five minutes. When rain falls at a rate of more than 0.4 inches per hour, it can cause debris flow, especially in fire-scarred areas where soil may be looser, according to the U.S. Geological Survey.

Actor Rob Lowe, who lives in Montecito, described it as a “perfect storm of bad events.”

Lowe, who wasn’t home at the time, told the “The Ellen DeGeneres Show” he received a video call from his son, who was at the house.

“Fires [were] everywhere, because gas lines were rupturing,” Lowe said, describing the picture his son showed him. “It was like ‘Armageddon.'”

“People who saw the fires, they woke up, went out to see what was going on, and then were washed away,” he said on the January show. “The sadness … I can’t kind of get beyond it.”

May: Maryland flooding

Flash flooding devastated historic Ellicott City in May, with residents and tourists scrambling to flee streets that turned into raging rivers.

More than 8 inches of rain fell there in just a few hours.

Megan Clark, the owner of a local toy store, was at work when the water “burst” through, rising from her ankles to her waist in minutes, she told ABC News.

Maryland National Guardsman and Air Force veteran Eddison Hermond was at an Ellicott City restaurant at the time, and he jumped into help. He was swept away to his death.

Howard County County Executive Allan Kittleman said the 2018 flood was worse than the one that hit Ellicott City two years before. In the 2016 flood, two people were killed and the city suffered millions of dollars in damages.

“My heart’s broken when I walk through the town and see it,” Kittleman told “Good Morning America” in May. “All I’m thinking about is the folks whose lives have been devastated for a second time in two years.”

September: Hurricane Florence

At least 43 people died in Hurricane Florence, which flooded the Carolinas in September.

North Carolina was hit with 36 inches of rain and South Carolina got 24 inches — both surpassing statewide records.

North Carolina’s Cape Fear River reached an all-time high level of 8.27 feet in Wilmington, surpassing its previous record of 8.2 feet, which was set during Hurricane Matthew in 2016.

Beaufort, North Carolina resident Sara Felton and her husband were among the many whose homes were destroyed.

They waded through ankle-deep mud and marshland to return to their trailer only to discover the windows were blown out and the living room ceiling had collapsed.

“I’ve never seen my husband cry before, and he was just in tears,” she said. “Everything was underwater.”

“Our entire deck,” she added, “it’s like it just got lifted up and the sky just swallowed it.”

Felton said when she went to her daughter’s bedroom, “We could just feel the floors, it was about to collapse. We couldn’t even step into the room.”

“Our whole entire place was just destroyed,” she said.

October: Hurricane Michael

Ferocious and historic Hurricane Michael left a trail of destruction across Florida, Georgia and the Carolinas in October, becoming the strongest storm — based on pressure — to hit the U.S. since Hurricane Camille in 1969.

Michael also brought the strongest winds seen since Hurricane Andrew in 1992.

It was also the first Category 4 hurricane to ever make landfall on the Florida Panhandle and “the worst storm” that area has ever seen, Florida Gov. Rick Scott said.

The hurricane devastated Panama City, Florida, and nearly demolished the small town of Mexico Beach.

Michael sounded like a freight train when it barreled into Panama City with 150 mph winds, resident Jackie Lane told ABC News.

Lane, her husband and her son rode out the storm in the second story of an inn down the street from their home. She and her son raced into the bathtub, she said, as her husband sat on the floor and put his feet up against the bathroom door.

“It was already splitting,” she said of the door, her voice shaking, “and the roof came, the ceiling came off.”

“For about three hours it just sucked us in and sucked us out, sucked us in and sucked us out,” she said. “I thought I was gonna lose my husband ’cause the door was cracking. And the stove and refrigerator that was in there, we could hear them just banging together and clanging around. We seen the stove fly across us. We seen all the debris, trees, pieces of everything.”

“We’re lucky to have our lives,” she said.

After wreaking havoc in Florida, Michael swept north, becoming the first major hurricane (a Category 3 or higher) to track into Georgia since 1898.

Michael also blew through the Carolinas, which were still reeling from Hurricane Florence just a month earlier, before blowing through Virginia.

Michael killed 43 in Florida and at least 10 people in other states.

November: California wildfires

Unprecedented wildfires swept through the Golden State in November, from the Camp Fire in Northern California to the Woolsey Fire in Southern California.

While three died in the Woolsey Fire, 85 people were killed in the Camp Fire, which has become the deadliest in California history.

Among those running for safety was Nichole Jolly, a nurse at a hospital in Paradise, who looked to save herself after she finished evacuating her critically sick patients.

She started driving but “the fire was blowing in so fast.”

“There was sparks and flames hitting the side of my car,” she told ABC News. “My car started to fill up with smoke.”

“I knew I was gonna die if I stayed in my car,” she said, so she jumped out.

With her pants on fire, she tried to take shelter in a colleague’s car. But when that car filled with smoke, Jolly said she got out and started running.

The sky was pitch black, Jolly said, and the air burned her lungs.

“I thought I was gonna die right there,” she recalled. “There was no oxygen.”

Then out of the darkness, she said, a fire truck appeared. Two firemen extinguished her pants, put a fire blanket over her and lifted her into the truck, she said.

Though Jolly’s home was destroyed in the blaze, “it can all be replaced,” she said.

“I’m alive and I thought I was gonna die multiple times, so, it’s just stuff,” she said. “My life, my kids’ life, my mom’s life, my husband, that can’t be replaced.” A powerful storm has hit central and western Japan, injuring at least 21 people and cutting power to tens of thousands of homes.

Typhoon Jongdari (or "skylark" in Korean) brought torrential rain and winds of up to 180km/h (110mph).

It made landfall on the country's main island, Honshu, at 01:00 (16:00 GMT Saturday) on Sunday.

Weather officials have since downgraded it to a tropical storm, but warn that heavy rain could trigger landslides.

Japan's public broadcaster NHK reports that 150,000 homes are without power.

As of midday local time, the storm was moving westwards and tens of thousands had been urged to leave their homes.

On Saturday, evacuation orders were issued to 36,400 people in the western city of Shobara, and 6,300 in the city of Kure.

"We are afraid that people may not be able to evacuate due to strong wind or floods blocking evacuation routes," said Hiroshima's governor, Hidehiko Yuzaki.

"I would like people to evacuate in advance so that they can save their lives."

Images have shown huge waves crashing on to rocks off the coast south-west of Tokyo, and ferry services have been suspended.

Late on Saturday, the rough seas smashed through the window of a hotel restaurant in the tourist town of Atami, injuring five people.

"We didn't expect this could happen... Waves gushed into the restaurant as the window glass broke but we are grateful that customers followed evacuation instructions," a hotel employee told AFP.

Hundreds of flights were also cancelled over the weekend as the storm neared the coast.

Japan is still reeling from one of its worst flooding disasters in decades earlier this month, which saw more than eight million people ordered to leave their homes. More than 4,000 survivors are still living in temporary shelters.

The floods were swiftly followed by an unprecedented heatwave which was declared a natural disaster.

At least 80 people have been killed by the temperature, and more than 22,000 hospitalised with heat stroke.

The country is now in the grip of typhoon season, which sees tropical storms barrel across the Pacific throughout the summer months.﻿Europe floods: Death toll rises as France declares natural disaster

Heavy rains across Europe have left at least 10 people dead, most of them in Germany.

Five drowned in their own homes on Wednesday in Bavaria and central France.

Dozens of towns have been inundated and forecasters say water levels are expected to keep rising for several days.

Dan Johnson reports.﻿ (Newser) – "The single-most powerful explosive event ever witnessed" took place somewhere between 1645 BC and 1500 BC, when the volcano Thera erupted on what's now the island of Santorini. LiveScience reports its power has been likened to that of an 1883 eruption in Indonesia that could be heard 3,000 miles away and killed some 40,000 people. No such count is available for the Thera explosion, which is why it doesn't make LiveScience's list of the 11 deadliest natural disasters "for which reasonably accurate death tolls exist." It includes the 2004 Indian Ocean quake and tsunami, which hit Indonesia hardest and killed as many as a quarter of a million people overall. Here are five disasters that didn't strike so recently:

    526 Antioch quake: The best estimate comes from John Malalas, a Greek chronicler from the Byzantine city where the quake struck whose writings from the time put the toll at about 250,000. A 2007 paper noted that the temblor's May timing was inopportune as the city's population was swollen with tourists there for Ascension Day, resulting in an elevated toll.
    1556 Shaanxi earthquake: As far as earthquakes go, this is pretty much the worst. Believed to have been about a magnitude 8, it is said to have demolished a 621-square-mile region of China's Shaanxi province on Jan. 23 of that year, killing some 830,000 people.
    1839 India cyclone: Some 20,000 ships were wiped out by the cyclone and resulting storm surge that struck the port city of Coringa on Nov. 25, but that number pales in comparison to the estimated death toll: 300,000 people.
    1920 Haiyuan earthquake: The US Geological Survey believes that this quake that hit central China on Dec. 16 of that year registered as a magnitude 7.8. Landslides were a big contributor to the death toll, which researchers in 2010 estimated as 273,400.
    1931 Central China Floods: Pegged by LiveScience as the deadliest of all natural disasters, this one spanned the months of July and August. The estimated ranges of those killed is a huge one, but the number is big regardless: Somewhere between 2 million and 3.7 million were killed when the Yangtze River flooded due to strong rains and melting snow, affecting some 70,000 square miles.
﻿Dozens of children were killed after being buried by a mudslide that slammed into their church during Indonesia's earthquake-tsunami disaster with more than 50 others still missing. 

Rescuers discovered the bodies of 34 students buried in the landslide, Indonesia Red Cross spokeswoman Aulia Arriani told AFP news agency on Tuesday.

"A total of 34 bodies were found by the team," Arriani said, adding 86 students had initially been reported missing from the Bible camp at the Jonooge Church Training Centre in Sigi Biromaru district.

The extent of the devastation caused by the earthquake and tsunami on the Indonesian island of Sulawesi should become clearer on Tuesday, as rescuers push into remote areas that have been out of contact for more than four days.

Friday's earthquake-driven tsunami has killed 844 people but fears have grown that the death toll may be far worse. Most of the dead so far were in Palu, the main city in the disaster zone.

With communications down and access by land disrupted, teams struggled to reach communities closer to the epicentre of the 7.5-magnitude earthquake that triggered tsunami waves as high as six metres.

Nigel Timmins, Oxfam's humanitarian director, said 2.4 million people live in the affected area and it could take weeks to realise the full extent of the disaster.

He was on the scene in Indonesia's Aceh after the 2004 earthquake and tsunami killed more than 130,000 there.

"It's not just a wall of water, it's a wall of water full of debris: concrete, trees, cars - everything being churned around like a giant cement mixer. It's like a huge bulldozer that clears away the land and afterwards you're left with complete chaos," Timmins told Al Jazeera.

About 1,700 houses in one Palu neighbourhood were swallowed up, with hundreds of people believed buried, the national disaster agency said.

There was also mounting concern over Donggala, a region of 300,000 people north of Palu and close to the epicentre, and two other districts - with a combined population of about 1.4 million.

Initial reports from Red Cross rescuers who had reached the outskirts of Donggala district were chilling.

"The situation in the affected areas is nightmarish," Jan Gelfand, head of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) office in Jakarta, said in a statement.

"The city of Palu has been devastated and first reports out of Donggala indicate that it has also been hit extremely hard by the double disaster," Gelfand said.

So far, nearly 200,000 people have been displaced and are in need of emergency help, while thousands have been streaming out of the stricken areas.

Chief security minister Wiranto said on Monday the government was trying to meet survivors' immediate needs and would accept offers of international help.

"Right now, we need emergency aid," Wiranto said, referring to the foreign aid that would be airlifted to Palu, 1,500km northeast of Jakarta.

About 3,000 people thronged the airport hoping to get on any flight and officers struggled to keep order.

Wiranto said a navy vessel capable of taking 1,000 people at a time would also be deployed to help with the evacuation.

Numerous aftershocks have strained survivors already frayed nerves. A 5.9-magnitude quake struck near the southern Indonesian island of Flores on Tuesday.﻿Hurricane Maria had a $43 billion impact on the U.S. territory’s economy, $1 billion more than originally estimated, according to an island government report.

The Puerto Rico Planning Board’s report says its calculations took into account millions of dollars received so far in federal hurricane recovery funds and insurance money.

Overall, the board found that the capital of San Juan was among the six most affected cities on the island after the Category 4 storm hit in September 2017, causing more than an estimated $100 billion in damage.

“Given the magnitude of the natural disaster, the economic sectors will keep feeling the impact for an undetermined amount of time,” the report says.

The board said it came up with the $43 billion figure in part via questionnaires issued to the public and private sectors as well as statistics provided by professional associations through October.

Puerto Rico economist Jose Caraballo said in a phone interview Monday that federal aid and insurance payouts so far have covered only 24 percent of the losses reported.

“A lot remains to be done,” he said. “The economic impact of the reconstruction has not been felt.”

The government said losses for the private sector alone totaled $30 billion, with manufacturing reporting the highest loss of income and agriculture among the highest damage to infrastructure and equipment.

The report comes as Puerto Rico struggles to emerge from a 12-year-old recession and tries to restructure a portion of its more than $70 billion public debt.

As the economic crisis continues, Puerto Rico’s governor and a federal control board overseeing the island’s finances continue to clash.

On Monday, the board accused Gov. Ricardo Rossello of signing three executive orders related to increasing employee compensation or benefits without its approval. It also said Rossello has enacted nearly 100 laws without following required protocol. The board warned it would take unspecified action if the governor does not submit the required documents.

A spokesman for the governor did not immediately respond to a request for comment.MALIBU, Calif. (AP)  Strong Santa Ana winds returned to Southern California on Sunday, causing flare-ups of a huge wildfire that has scorched a string of communities west of Los Angeles, but no additional structures were believed to have been lost, authorities said.

Huge plumes of smoke rose in the fire area, which stretches miles from the northwest corner of Los Angeles San Fernando Valley to the Malibu coast.

Airplanes and helicopters swooped low over hills and canyons to drop loads of fire retardant and water.

A one-day lull in the dry, northeasterly winds ended at midmorning and authorities warned that the gusts would continue through Tuesday.

The lull allowed firefighters to gain 10 percent control of the Woolsey fire, which has burned more than 130 square miles (335 square kilometers) in western Los Angeles County and southeastern Ventura County since Thursday.

Los Angeles County Fire Chief Daryl Osby stressed there were numerous hotspots and plenty of fuel that had not yet burned, but at sunset he said there had been huge successes despite a very challenging day.

The count of destroyed homes remained at 177 but it was expected to increase when an update is reported Monday. Osby noted that a November 1993 wildfire in Malibu destroyed more than 270 homes and said he would not be surprised if the total from the current fire would be higher.

The fires cause remained under investigation but Southern California Edison reported to the California Public Utilities Commission that there was an outage on an electrical circuit near where it started as Santa Ana winds blew through the region.

SoCal Edison said the report was submitted out of an abundance of caution although there was no indication from fire officials that its equipment may have been involved. The report said the fire was reported around 2:24 p.m. Thursday, two minutes after the outage.

Venture County Fire Chief Mark Lorenzen hadnt heard about the Edison report. It wouldnt surprise me if it turns out that winds caused equipment failure that sparked a fire, he said.

The death toll stood at two. The severely burned bodies were discovered in a car on a long residential driveway on a stretch of Mulholland Highway in Malibu, where most of the surrounding structures had burned. Authorities said investigators believed the driver became disoriented and the car was overcome by fire.

The deaths came as authorities in Northern California announced the death toll from a massive wildfire there has reached 29 people, bringing the statewide total to 31.

Progress was made on the lines of smaller fire to the west in Ventura County, which was 70 percent contained at about 7 square miles (18 square kilometers), and evacuations were greatly reduced. But thousands remained under evacuation orders due to the Woolsey fire.

Three firefighters suffered minor injuries, Osby said.

Also injured was a well-known member of the Malibu City Council. Councilman Jefferson Zuma Jay Wagner was injured while trying to save his home, which burned down, Councilman Skylar Peak told reporters Sunday.

Peak said Wagner was hospitalized but was expected to recover. Wagner runs Zuma Jay Surfboards, a longtime fixture on Pacific Coast Highway near the landmark Malibu Pier.

The extensive celebrity community within Malibu wasnt spared. Actor Gerard Butler and Camille Grammer Meyer of The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills were among those whose homes were damaged or destroyed.

Areas that suffered significant destruction included Seminole Springs, a mobile home community nestled by a lake in the rugged Santa Monica Mountains north of Malibu.

I smelled the fire and didnt think, grabbed my dog and left, resident Lisa Kin said Sunday, tears in her eyes and her voice breaking. It hasnt burned in decades and I knew we didnt stand a chance.

She described Seminole Springs as a beautiful community of families and older people who appreciate its tranquility. But she said she always feared a wildfire since she moved there 15 years ago, especially during recent years in which theres been almost no rain.

Roger Kelly, 69, who defied orders and hiked back into Seminole Springs, estimated 90 of its approximately 220 homes were destroyed. He had seen a neighbors home intact in a TV news aerial shot and hoped his home had survived. It did, but just a half-block away others were laid to waste.

I just started weeping, he said. I just broke down. Your first view of it (the destruction), man it just gets you.

Kelly said he had filled trash cans with water, soaked towels and readied a garden hose to defend his home early Friday, but when the air filled with smoke he and his wife fled the community where he has lived for 28 years and raised two children.

When he returned, virtually everything on the landscape around the community had been reduced to ash.

Spot fires continued to occur late Sunday afternoon near the Malibu campus of Pepperdine University, where 3,500 students were sheltering in place. The university said it was closing Malibu campus and its Calabasas campus to the north until Nov. 26 but classes would be remotely administered online and through email.

Santa Ana winds, produced by surface high pressure over the Great Basin squeezing air down through canyons and passes in Southern Californias mountain ranges, are common in the fall and have a long history of fanning destructive wildfires in the region.

But fire officials say fire behavior has changed statewide after years of drought and record summer heat that have left vegetation extremely crisp and dry.

Things are not the way they were 10 years ago ... the rate of spread is exponentially more than it used to be, said Lorenzen, urging residents to not put their lives at risk by trying to defend their own homes instead of evacuating.

That change has impacted the ability to move firefighting resources around the state, officials said.

Typically this time of year when we get fires in Southern California we can rely upon our mutual aid partners in Northern California to come assist us because this time of year theyve already had significant rainfall or even snow, said Osby, the LA County fire chief.

With the devastation and loss of life in the Northern California fire, its evident from that situation statewide that were in climate change and its going to be here for the foreseeable future, he said.﻿ UK aid supplies have arrived in Indonesia on board an RAF plane.

On board are thousands of shelter kits, solar lanterns and water purifiers that have been sent to the disaster zone.

There's also trucks and power generators to help get the supplies to where they're needed.

A huge earthquake struck Indonesia in Southeast Asia on Friday 28 September.

The 7.5 magnitude earthquake hit only six miles from the country's coast, and triggered a tsunami - a huge wave which hit the coastline.

The tsunami was about six metres high, which is about the height of a small house.

Officials say more than 1,400 people are known to have died, and the city of Palu has been very badly damaged. 

Aid supplies have been arriving in the city, where survivors have had no access to running water or electricity.

Rescuers are still trying to reach remote areas in Sulawesi, an Indonesian island cut off by the earthquake.

Landslides, downed communications networks and collapsed bridges have made it hard for aid workers and rescuers to reach rural areas.

Some people in the area are angry they have not yet received help, and say the country's President is only being told about the problems in Palu.

The entire disaster zone is home to 1.4 million people and at least 70,000 have gathered in evacuation sites across the island.

The UN has warned that large parts of what might be the "worst-affected" areas have not been reached.

"But the teams are pushing, they are doing what they can," UN humanitarian spokesperson Jen Laerke said late on Tuesday.﻿Almost half of Bolivia has been declared a natural disaster area in a bill passed by the lower house of the Bolivian Congress.

Once the government signs the bill, it will free up funds for at least 60,000 people affected by heavy rains, many of whom left homeless.


Bolivia's Civil Defense agency reported two dead from flooding and that more than 13,500 families have been affected by over two weeks of heavy rain.

More are suspected to be in difficulties in remote regions bordering rivers which have burst their banks.

The floods are worst in the departments of La Paz, Beni, and Oruro.

The department of Cochabamba is included in the emergency declaration, not only because it has been affected by floods, but also because some parts have suffered from a heavy drought.

In Oruro, rivers have overflowed and flooded four towns, destroying dozens of government built housing for former mine workers.

International requests

At least four towns have also flooded due to overflowing rivers in Beni, near Bolivia's Amazon region.

The Civil Defense has already asked international organisations like the Red Cross and World Health Organisation for help.

A woman in one of the affected areas
Many people face difficulties in remote regions
The departments of La Paz, Beni, Oruro and Cochabamba will be open to millions of dollars in federal relief funds.

The Bolivian national weather service estimates that a daily average of some 25 litres (6.7 gallons) of water per 1 square metre (1.2 square yards) have rained down on La Paz, the worst affected area.

Although other parts of Bolivia are being hit by a drought, forecasters say the rains are expected to continue.

		
		LOS ANGELES  The remains of 14 more victims were found in the ashes of a massive Northern California wildfire, bringing the total number of deaths from blazes raging across the state to at least 25, officials said Saturday.

Butte County Sheriff Kory L. Honea said the 14 bodies were recovered in the Camp Fire, thought to be the most destructive wildfire in state history. Nine deaths had previously been reported in that fire.

Two bodies also were found in the burn zone of the Woolsey Fire in Southern California, officials said.

"I know that members of our community who are missing loved ones are anxious, and I know that the news of us recovering bodies has to be disconcerting," Honea said. "I will tell you that we are doing everything that we possibly can to identify those remains and make contact with the next of kin."

"My heart goes out to those people. I will tell you that this weighs heavy on all of us," he said.

More than 50,000 people were evacuated or staying in shelters because of the Camp Fire, which broke out Thursday around 6:33 a.m., and a preliminary estimate is that more than 6,400 homes have been destroyed, according to the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection, also known as Cal Fire.

The Camp Fire has burned around 109,000 acres and was 25 percent contained Sunday, officials said. More Santa Ana winds fueling the fires are expected on Sunday.

Honea said that of the 14 new deaths, four were in the Concow area, east of Paradise, and 10 were in the Paradise area. He said 110 people remain unaccounted for but cautioned that some may be duplicative. On Friday, officials said five bodies were found in or near cars that were overcome by flames, and four others were found at residences in Paradise.

Some 250,000 people in California were under evacuation orders from three fires on Saturday, including the Camp Fire, officials said.

Two of those fires were burning in the Los Angeles area: The Woolsey Fire in Ventura and Los Angeles counties, which accounted for 200,000 of the evacuation orders, and the Hill Fire in Ventura County.

Fire crews took advantage Saturday of a break in fierce winds  with resources being sent from other states to help  but officials warned they are expected to return Sunday. The National Weather Service warned of "extremely critical fire weather conditions" Sunday through Tuesday.

"Don't be lulled by a false sense of security  right now Mother Nature has given us a short reprieve. The winds are not blowing, Ventura County Fire Chief Mark Lorenzen said Saturday afternoon in a media briefing about the Woolsey Fire.

"But we know tomorrow, Mother Natures going to turn her fan back on, and the winds are going to start blowing," he said, urging the public to stay vigilant and to be prepared to evacuate if called to do so.

The two people found dead in the Malibu area amid the Woolsey Fire were discovered badly burned in a vehicle in a driveway, the Los Angeles County Sheriffs Department said. Sheriffs Capt. Chief John Benedict said those deaths are being treated as fire-related but an investigation is ongoing.

At least 177 homes and other structures have been destroyed in the Woolsey Fire, which has burned 83,275 acres and was 10 percent contained Sunday, Cal Fire said. The agency said some 57,000 structures were threatened by the blaze.

Michelle Mussetter, who evacuated Friday night from her home in Thousand Oaks, returned Saturday to find it was destroyed.

"I just came around the corner and Im like 'Is that house burned?' You could see through it," she said. "My babies grew up in this house. I dont know what to say."

President Donald Trump, on a trip to France, tweeted Saturday morning about what he called poor "forest management" and suggested that was to blame for the deadly and destructive wildfires in California. Fire officials have said that the fires have been fueled by high winds.

The Pasadena Firefighters Association strongly objected to the presidents remarks, tweeting: Mr. President, with all due respect, you are wrong. The fires in So. Cal are urban interface fires and have NOTHING to do with forest management."

"Come to SoCal and learn the facts & help the victims," the tweet, attributed to Scott Austin, the president of the International Association of Fire Fighters 809, read.

Trump in August made similar claims about California's water and environmental management in relation to fires, claims which were rejected by experts.

California Gov.-elect Gavin Newsom, a Democrat, also tweeted that lives have been lost and homes burned to the ground, and it was not the time for the president to be engaging in partisanship. Later Saturday, Trump did tweet condolences to the families of those who died.

The Hill Fire, burning in Ventura County, was at more than 4,000 acres on Saturday, according to the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection, also known as Cal Fire. Some 400 structures were threatened, and the fire was 70 percent contained on Sunday with full containment expected Thursday.

Fire officials and climate scientists have said that climate change is contributing to worsening wildfire conditions in California, raising fears that the states fire season may now be year-round.

"It's really a cumulative effect in that it's changing the landscape. You're getting longer periods of the year when you get these fires. We're literally burning the candle at both ends, Daniel Swain, a climate scientist at UCLA and the National Center for Atmospheric Research, told NBC News on Friday.

California's typical fire season isn't in the summer, but rather in September and early October, which follow the dry season and come before the rainier one  a product of the area's Mediterranean climate.

California in July saw its hottest month ever recorded with a string of record-breaking heat waves, and Swain said vegetation in the state has been left "tinder, tinder dry."

Initial estimates are that the Camp Fire has destroyed more than 6,453 single-family homes and 260 commercial buildings, which would make it the most destructive wildfire in state history, according to Cal Fire.

Marilyn Pelletier got a knock on her door in Paradise as the Camp Fire raged and was told she had five minutes to leave. She grabbed her medicine bag and her small dog, and when she left "the whole sky was pink."

"You could see the fire coming," she said. "It was devastating. It's horrible. The worst thing I've ever experienced in my life. I was just  I'm grateful I got out with my life."

Pelletier moved to Paradise two years ago after her husband passed away, and bought a house in the town which was destroyed in the fire, she said.

"Its a beautiful home  it was. It was real pretty, Pelletier said. "I'm devastated. I'm heartbroken, I'm alone, Im scared."

Malibu was among the cities ordered to evacuate because of the Woolsey Fire. Shane Clark, 28, who has lived in the community since he was 12 years old, left Friday and watched on TV as his neighbors' homes burned and as firefighters tried to save his home.

Firefighters were able to enter his house and recover what they could that might be of sentimental value. They left the items outside, he said. Among them were four ultrasound photos that had been hanging on the fridge of his and his wifes unborn son, which will be their first child.

"They were able to save these pictures for us, Clark said. "This is the only copies that we have."

"I'm very thankful for what they could do," Clark said outside the ruins of their home, which they have lived in for a year.

"You know, we can rebuild," he said. "But the value of some of those things that they were able to take out was I think more valuable than this structure."﻿Late on Sunday night, a tropical cyclone formed off the north Queensland coast.

The storm has begun a track towards the coast, where more than 100 bushfires are still burning after week-long heatwaves and “unprecedented” conditions. Tropical cyclone Owen will bring some relief from the stinking heat; lower temperatures and rainfall that should help firefighters control the most threatening fires by midweek.

Queensland’s exhausted emergency services will not welcome Owen’s track towards the shore with any sense of respite; to them the blended ends of disaster seasons represent a horror scenario, but one many have seen coming.

Paul Gray, a representative of the Queensland Firefighters’ Union, says the nature of bushfires has noticeably changed in recent years. The fires, he says, have become more intense and longer-lasting. Last week conditions in parts of Queensland were classified “catastrophic” for the first time. The rating has only existed since 2009, but no bushfire in the state since 1966, when warnings were first introduced, would have been considered so dangerous.

“They’re always intense, but now you’re getting punished for days and days. Instead of a heatwave lasting one day, heatwaves are lasting four days or longer,” Gray says.

“It makes it more difficult for fire crews to stand down, we lose the ability to rotate. Firefighters are working longer hours on protracted incidents for days at a time. There is an increasing need for out-of-state and overseas assistance, because it’s getting harder to relieve our own crews.”

Australia’s devastating bushfires typically occur far to the south of the tropical Queensland rainforest.

But Gray says the fire season in the north now lasts longer. That means a diminishing timeframe to allow emergency services to change tack from firefighting to battling cyclones and floodwaters, which historically have caused many more deaths and wider destruction in Queensland.

“We have to turn around very quickly and go from a fire mindset to a floodwater mindset. We have to repurpose vehicles for a different kind of response. It used to be that you could predict when your storm or flood season would be, you’d predict when your fire season would be.

“Climate change is having an impact on firefighting. There’s scientific data to back it up, but I like to think that because we are on the coal face that people are a little bit more aware of just how things have actually changed.”
‘What was normal 20 years ago is not normal now’

“Climate change is about unprecedented conditions becoming more probable,” says the climate scientist Lesley Hughes. “What was normal on average 20 years ago is not normal or average now. If you’re getting unprecedented conditions, that’s what climate scientists have been warning about.”

The word unprecedented has been used repeatedly to describe Queensland’s weather this past week. Centuries-old heat records were broken in north Queensland, most remarkably in Cairns, where the hottest November temperature had been a 37.2C day in 1900. On Monday last week, Cairns was recorded at 42.6C. The following four days were all hotter than the previous record.

“The strongest relationship between climate change and bushfires is the weather on the day,” Hughes says. “As climate change continues on, we continue to get increased average temperatures, that’s increasing the probability that we will get dangerous fire weather on any particular day.”

In 2014 the Climate Council made six key findings about Australia’s fire season. That risk had increased; the fire season was becoming longer; fires were being fuelled by record conditions; the number of high-risk days would increase; communities should prepare for increasingly severe fires and “this is the critical decade”.

“This is the new reality that people have to live and plan for,” Hughes says.

Longer bushfire seasons in Australia and the US have already threatened to disrupt longstanding cooperation between the two countries, including sharing personnel, equipment and expertise. Changes to fire seasons have this week created a conflict between the lingering bushfire emergency in Queensland and the forecast of extreme conditions in Victoria. Crews from Victoria were sent north to assist, but the last will return south so their home state can be properly prepared.

“Where once we might have shared personnel during bushfire periods ... that’s becoming less and less feasible because countries and states are needing those things at the same time,” Hughes says.

“This does point to the need for more resources, as well as increasingly looking at planning regulations, looking at what people can build, having roads to get people out. It’s an example of how the change in risk due to climate change is affecting everything about our daily lives.”
“People said ‘the whole town is going’”

There is a kind of bushfire no one can survive; the sort we could barely conceive until a decade ago.

Before the catastrophic Black Saturday fires in Victoria, which killed 173 people in February 2009, residents were advised they could choose to remain in their homes and defend their property. The mantra was leave early, or stay, in part to avoid the dangers of having people panic and flee with a fire front approaching.

In Queensland last week, emergency services used modelling developed in Victoria after Black Saturday to launch several widespread evacuations. The largest was in the town of Gracemere, near Rockhampton, where about 8,000 people were told to go.

Beau Dabron, the administration manager at the Gracemere Hotel, stayed in town. He and others watched traffic bank up in town and remain stationary for more than an hour, as people piled into cars and attempted the short drive to Rockhampton.

“Once night time fell we had a good view from the pub towards Kabra ... there’s none of that glow, there was no flame. In our minds we felt we were fine. We slept with one eye open just to be safe,” he says.

Was he worried that this fire could be different?

“Most people have been through them before, so generally speaking people have something to expect. The fear set in when people said, ‘the whole town is going’.”

The Tropic of Capricorn runs through Gracemere. Conditions turned when the tropical humidity suddenly dropped – combined with record high temperatures and fierce winds, the ingredients to fuel the most dangerous fires.

Rachel Nolan, a fire ecologist from the University of Western Sydney, says climate change means conditions are drier, as well as warmer.

“The two things are really tied together,” Nolan says. “When it’s warmer, that means the fuels are going to be drier.

“There’s a couple of things that contribute to the risk of fire – the fuel load, the amount of material that can burn, and how dry that fuel is.”

Richard Thornton, the chief executive of the Bushfire and Natural Hazards cooperative research centre, says there has been a “long-term moisture deficit” on the Australian east coast that adds to the fire risk.

“The whole of the east coast ... is pretty dry at the moment. The underlying condition is dry. What that means is that if you get a day that’s hot, that’s windy. ... it will burn with a ferocity.”

Thornton says the Queensland fires are “another example of some of the extremes that are possible”.

“It’s incredibly unusual, if not unknown, for these sorts of temperatures in this location. It’s pretty clear that something is changing in terms of fire season.

“I think that what we’re seeing in Queensland is tragic for those who are there. For the rest of the country, who are coming into the beginning of summer, this is a real wake-up call saying, ‘Now is the time to prepare’.”Natural disasters devastated communities around the world in 2018, killing thousands of people and inflicting billions of dollars in damage.

In September, at least 1,900 people died in Indonesia after a magnitude 7.5 earthquake and a subsequent tsunami with waves as high as 20 feet. The following month, Hurricane Michael, the strongest storm to hit the United States in 50 years, devastated North and South Carolina and killed dozens of people. Some of the worst fires in US history hit California shortly afterward, melting cars, reducing bodies to bone, and wiping out an entire town.

Much of the record-breaking devastation was caused by elevated temperatures on land and at sea. In a warming world, climate scientists say these disasters will only continue to become more severe.

Here are some of the year's worst natural disasters. In October, Hurricane Michael became the strongest storm to ever hit the Florida Panhandle. It has since been linked to 60 deaths. Hurricane Michael, which had sustained winds of 155 mph, is also the strongest hurricane to hit the continental US during the month of October. No other Category 4 storm has ever hit the Panhandle area.

Nationwide, Hurricane Michael was the third-strongest ever, behind only Hurricane Camille and the 1935 Labor Day hurricane. The latest hurricane left a wake of destruction in Florida, destroying entire rows of homes in the seaside town of Mexico Beach.Mexico Beach, a small seaside town, was one of the hardest-hit areas. About 285 of the town's roughly 1,000 residents stayed behind during the hurricane.The Rev. Eddie LaFountain, a pastor in Mexico Beach, said he thought most residents would rebuild their homes.

"I think the people here have a great heart and a lot of resilience," LaFountain told the Associated Press. "We call them stubborn and hard-headed. I think they will be back."The Camp Fire, which began on November 8, was the deadliest and most destructive fire in California's history. At least 88 people were killed in the blaze.The Camp Fire burned through 153,000 acres in and around Paradise, a town in northern California. It burned an area five times the size of San Francisco.

More than 13,900 homes and 500 businesses were destroyed in the Camp Fire, along with more than 4,200 other buildings. It was the most destructive wildfire in state history based on structures lost.Many residents did not receive an evacuation notice by phone. Jackie Rabbit, one of those residents, told Business Insider she got stuck in traffic on her way out of Paradise and had to escape on foot.Rabbit said she could see flames engulfing the road and start coming toward her car.

"I was sitting in my car just screaming, waiting to die, but trying to tell myself, 'OK, it may not look like it to me, but I bet they have this under control,'" Rabbit told Business Insider. "'I just can't see that because I'm not a firefighter. I'm not an emergency personnel.'"

She found her burned car in a tow lot 11 days after leaving it and escaping Paradise on foot.While the Woolsey Fire in California wasn’t record-breaking, it was one of the most shocking wildfires this year. The fire, which killed two people, pushed into wealthy areas of Malibu and destroyed many mansions by the water.The fires in California are part of a trend. Fire season in the western US is getting longer each year, and some experts say the concept of seasonal wildfires no longer applies because dangerous fires can now happen anytime. Wildfires also set records in Canada's British Columbia. About 5,020 square miles went up in flames during August, surpassing last year's record. More than 3,200 people evacuated because of the wildfires.

Scientists said the past two fire seasons have been so severe in part due to a lack of controlled burning, CBC reported. Firefighters have allowed potential fuels to build up in British Columbia, and climate change brought warmer weather and more lightning to the area.A series of heat waves also produced all-time highs for temperatures in several countries. Armenia noted its warmest July on record, and Japan set a national record with 106 degrees Fahrenheit in July.

At the University of California Los Angeles, officials recorded an all-time high of 111 degrees on July 6.

The Washington Post also reported on record-high temperatures in Belfast, Northern Ireland; Montreal, Canada; and parts of southern Russia. The world's hottest-ever low temperature, 109 degrees Fahrenheit, was recorded on June 28 in Quriyat, Oman. Before this incident, there had never been a single location — anywhere in the world — that remained above 109 degrees for an entire day. The world's previous hottest low temperature was 107.4 degrees. It was reported in Oman as well, in June 2011. Many areas have experienced severe droughts after record-low amounts of rainfall this year. Germany, for example, had the driest summer and fall on record this year, according to Deutsche Welle.

The drought, which led to low water levels in lakes and rivers, hit farmers hard.

In Hungary, the water levels of the Danube River hit record lows too. The drought disrupted shipping routes, Reuters reported. Rainfall in mid-November brought the annual total to 64.86 inches in Baltimore, surpassing a 2003 record of 62.66 inches.

Three people died in two separate incidents due to this year's floods in Baltimore. Some of the rain came in the aftermath of Hurricanes Florence and Michael.

Another natural disaster, the earthquake in Indonesia, killed at least 1,900 people and displaced thousands more. Though the earthquake and subsequent tsunami were not the worst to hit Indonesia, they made headlines for the destruction and the fact that early detection warning systems were not working before the tsunami hit.The country's warning system — a network of more than 20 floating detection units connected to underwater sensors that transmit notices — was not either damaged or stolen, Business Insider reported earlier this year.

Indonesia's warning system was underfunded and hadn't worked since 2012. While a tsunami warning was issued, it seemed to significantly underestimate the disaster's scale.

Many people were unaware of the warning due to damaged power lines and a lack of storm sirens along the coast.Over the summer, flooding in the Indian state of Kerala killed at least 350 people. More than 800,000 people were displaced in June after torrential rains produced mass flooding in Kerala.

Entire villages were destroyed by landslides and flooding during record monsoon rains in the coastal southern state.

China's second-longest river, the Huang He (Yellow), is the source of the three deadliest floods in history. Flooding in 1887, 1931, and 1938 killed millions of people and caused an incalculable amount of damage.

The 1931 flood was the most destructive. An area equivalent to the size of England was deluged by flood waters that carried debris, diseases, and destroyed crops.

Severe destruction and chaos prevented officials from determining an exact death toll, but it's estimated that 850,000 to 4,000,000 people were killed by the flooding and its lingering effects. Approximately 80 million people were left homeless.The Shaanxi earthquake is believed to be the deadliest quake of all time, killing an estimated 830,000 people. The tremor decimated the Shaanxi and Shanxi provinces of northern China by 60%, leveling mountains, inducing flooding, and starting fires in mere seconds.

In the months following the quake, survivors began to look for ways to protect themselves from future earthquakes in the area by replacing stone buildings with earthquake-resistant materials like bamboo.In 1976, the Great Tangshan Earthquake decimated the Chinese coal and industrial city of Tangshan located just 68 miles east of Beijing. Shortly after the initial shock, a 7.1 magnitude aftershock rocked the city and prevented rescue efforts to the original quake site.

The official death toll totaled 242,000 people, but some believe the disaster could have been responsible for upwards of 650,000 deaths.

In 1970, Bangladesh, formerly known as East Pakistan, was crippled by the Bhola cyclone— one of the deadliest tropical cyclones in history.

The stormed surge killed at least 300,000 people, including 45% of the population of the Bangladesh city of Tazumuddin.The 2010 Haiti earthquake that shook Haiti and the Dominican Republic caused so much devastation and chaos that officials were unable to determine an exact death toll. The Haitian government, however, believes that more than 300,000 people died.

In 1138, a massive earthquake struck Aleppo, Syria, killing an estimated 230,000 people. The magnitude of the earthquake is unknown, but it is said to have been felt as far as 220 miles away in Damascus.

The earthquake brought major damage to northern Syria; buildings collapsed, homes were destroyed, and several nearby small towns were demolished.

In 2004, a 9.1 magnitude earthquake triggered a tsunami at the bottom of the Indian Ocean with energy equivalent to 23,000 atomic bombs.

The resulting waves traveled across the ocean at the speed of a jet airliner and swept away entire communities on the coast of Sumatra, Indonesia.

The disaster affected 14 surrounding countries, including Thailand, India, Sri Lanka, Indonesia, and Malaysia, and killed 227,898 people.The Haiyuan earthquake, also known as the Gansu earthquake, rocked China in 1920.

One of the deadliest in history, the 7.8 magnitude quake caused rivers to change course and landslides to decimate 10 Chinese provinces, destroying four major cities. An estimated 200,000 people died.Over a three-day period in August 1975, Typhoon Nina brought extreme rainfall causing severe flooding in China.

The collapse of the Banqiao Reservoir and nearby Shimantan Dams resulted in 26,000 deaths initially, and an estimated 100,000 additional fatalities from resulting famine and disease.As in the rest of the world, the impacts of climate change are unlikely to abate anytime soon in West Africa. In Nigeria, the devastating effects of climate change are in full view. The low-lying coast off the Gulf of Guinea is especially vulnerable to rising sea levels, the Sahara has expanded about 10 percent since 1920, and natural disasters appear to be on the rise. In 2017, flooding affected an estimated 250,000 Nigerians; in 2016, 92,000 were displaced. At the other end of the climate spectrum, up to 40 percent of the country’s land area is now estimated to be subject to periodic drought. 

Uncontrolled urbanization and rapid population growth, without the expansion of the necessary infrastructure to address them, will exacerbate the destructive force of natural disasters. Nigeria is now about half urban, and the population is expected to grow from 200 million people to perhaps 450 million by mid-century.Climate change is not a subject of popular debate in Nigeria, but there is widespread discontent with how the government responds to natural disasters. The Nigerian Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), similar to its American counterpart, FEMA, is on the front line of providing relief to the victims of natural disasters and plays a major, if not exclusive, role in the relief of internally displaced persons. Nigerians appear to have a low opinion of NEMA’s capabilities. Reform, for its own sake, is badly needed. It will likely require extensive personnel house-cleaning and the assurance of a steady revenue stream. Closer NEMA cooperation with international relief agencies so far as been disappointing, and it might well require presidential leadership, given a general Nigerian aversion, rarely articulated, to partnership with international agencies. But corrupt and weak institutions are notoriously difficult to reform, as the shortcomings of President Buhari’s anti-corruption campaign illustrate.

Nevertheless, reforming NEMA should be fiscally feasible and—important to any incoming administration—would be publicly visible. Such reforms might be taken by Nigerians as a down payment by a new or a second-term administration for a commitment to more extensive reform. It therefore presents itself as an opportunity to the incoming Nigerian administration to rebuild trust with the citizens it is sworn to protect. 962,326 Albanians have been affected by natural disasters, mainly floods.
During the floods taken place in 2010, the damages amount to 6% of GDP, while in FYROM they amounted to 18%.

Meanwhile, climate changes and urbanisation of areas which are prone to natural disasters may increase these threats by four times in Albania and the Balkan region by 2080, the World Bank warns.

In May 2014 alone, the heavy rainfalls that were registered in Bosnia and Herzegovina affected 1 million people or 25% of the population, while damages amounted to 15% of GDP.SAN DIEGO (KGTV) - Hundreds of homeless San Diegans were transported to SDCCU Stadium in Mission Valley after flooding forced them to evacuate from their East Village shelter.

Heavy rainfall Thursday night took a toll on the Alpha Project’s downtown shelter, as water inundated tents and swamped dozens of portable outdoor bathrooms.

The storm also led to a hazmat response at the shelter, 10News learned.

As part of the overnight emergency evacuation, about 300 homeless citizens were loaded onto a fleet of MTS buses and were taken to the stadium, where San Diego fire crews and police officers were waiting to assist them.

At the stadium, the homeless were given food, a clean and dry place to sleep, and temporary clothing to replace their soiled garments.

The San Diego Fleet football team asked the public to bring new socks, clothes, blankets and other items to Gate A1 of the stadium by 5 p.m. Friday.

There is no word on how long the emergency shelter at the stadium will be in place.Authorities kept a worried eye Friday on fire-scarred Southern California hillsides after a storm brought flooding fears and prompted evacuation orders for hundreds of homes.
The second storm in a week dropped record-breaking rainfall on a parched Los Angeles Thursday, jamming traffic on Southern California highways and sending an airliner skidding off a runway, but no major injuries were reported.A mudslide shut down Pacific Coast Highway and surrounding roads in and around Malibu neighborhoods charred by last month's massive fire that destroyed hundreds of homes.
Kirby Kotler and his neighbors spent days before the storm stacking 18,000 sandbags behind their homes along the highway. But when heavy rains arrived, mud, water and rocks blasted through the bags and across their properties. Kotler, who wielded water hoses to beat back the flames in November, used a tractor to keep the debris from entering his home.
"Saving my house once again," said Kotler, 57, a lifelong Malibu resident. "I'm more than a little concerned. If we get another blast of heavy rain there'll be no stopping the hill from coming down." Malibu officials reported no injuries and no major property damage.
At Hollywood Burbank Airport, about 15 miles (33 kilometers) north of downtown Los Angeles, nobody was hurt when a Southwest Airlines plane from Oakland skidded off a wet runway as it landed. The plane came to a stop in a graded area designed to slow aircraft that overshoot the runway, the Federal Aviation Administration said. Palmer said he was prepared to tuck into an emergency posture while his unflappable co-worker continued writing emails during the rough landing.
Los Angeles and the rest of Southern California sorely need rainfall. Virtually the entire region is experiencing drought conditions, with portions of Los Angeles and Ventura counties and areas along the Mexican border in extreme drought. The storm provided a big boost in and around Los Angeles. According to NBC4 meteorologist Anthony Yanez, rain amounts ranged from half an inch to nearly 4 inches with snow at 6 inches and counting. Normal monthly rainfall for December is about 2.33 inches.Three adults and two children have been rescued from cars trapped in floods caused by heavy rain.
Two vehicles got stuck in deep water on a road between St Clears and Llansteffan, Carmarthenshire, at about 16:40 GMT.
Both drivers and all passengers were pulled to safety by firefighters.
Between 30mm to 50mm of rain fell in some hilly locations and flood alerts are in place across south Wales, meaning more flooding is possible.
Earlier a yellow 'be aware' warning was issued for south and mid Wales.A man has died in a landslide after Storm Callum hit as parts of Wales saw its "worst flooding for 30 years".
Rivers burst their banks, homes were flooded, some were without power while travel was affected as Wales bore the brunt of torrential rain and wind.
The man was killed after a landslip at Cwmduad in Carmarthenshire, one village is ready to evacuate and people have been told to stay at home.
Police have said people should avoid Carmarthen due to rising water levels.
The River Towy has already burst its banks and breached the town's flood defences and it is critically high as flood warnings remain in place across Wales.Carmarthenshire, Powys and Ceredigion were the worst affected areas and at Milford Haven, the strongest wind in the UK was recorded on Saturday as gusts of 60mph (97kmh) battered the Pembrokeshire coast.
About 100 sheep have been washed away in flood water at Pontargothi in Carmarthenshire and Dyfed-Powys Police want anyone who see the sheep wash up to contact them.A horse, meanwhile, was rescued in Monmouthshire after being partially submerged by the flooded River Usk near Abergavenny.
Capel Curig in Conwy was among the wettest places in the UK with 46.2mm (1.6ins) of rain, the wettest being Shap in Cumbria.Further flood warnings are in place in Scotland while about 2,000 homes and businesses in England have been without power with some flood defences breached.
In England, a man died after he was swept into the sea in Brighton and two cars were crushed by a falling tree in Cornwall overnight.But elsewhere, the hottest October day in seven years was recorded in Lincolnshire as Donna Nook reached 26.5°C on Saturday afternoon.
A Met Office amber warning for rain across south, west and some of mid Wales ran until 18:00 BST while the rest of Wales was on a lesser yellow alert for flooding until midnight on Sunday.
"We have looked at the records and we are looking at records about 30 years ago when we had an event of this size and significance," said Aneurin Cox, of Natural Resources Wales.A number of key routes in Wales including the A470 Merthyr bypass, the A40 in Carmarthenshire and the main A4042 road between Abergavenny and Pontypool at Llanellen are shut.
The A5 eastbound is shut at Bethesda in Gwynedd due to a landslip while the M48 Severn Bridge near Chepstow is also closed eastbound.
Bridges crossing the swollen River Teifi in Ceredigion are closed at Llanybydder, Cenarth, Newcastle Emlyn, Llechryd and Lampeter.The flood defences in Carmarthen have been breached for the first time since they were built almost 30 years ago as the River Towy burst its banks.In Aberaman, Rhondda Cynon Taff, one resident was rescued from a first floor window by fire crews on Saturday morning and other residents were evacuated as a precaution, although they were allowed to return their homes shortly after 11:00.Vicki LeClerc, who lives in one of the 29 properties, said all residents stayed in their homes overnight, despite offers to transport them away, but water levels have continued to rise."The canal is coming over the banks," she said.
"My piano is currently on the sofa and everything we can salvage is upstairs. We're just going to sit and wait and see how bad it gets."Public transport in Wales is struggling as there are no trains between Swansea and Carmarthen, Cardiff and Aberdare, Machynlleth and Shrewsbury and Blaenau Ffestiniog and Llandudno.
Replacement bus services are in operation on some affected routes but passengers are advised to check with Arriva Trains Wales' website.Arriva Trains Wales, on its last day of running the rail franchise in Wales, has told passengers: "Due to the severe disruption to train services, lack of available road transport caused by local road conditions, customers are advised not to travel as journey completion cannot be guaranteed."The guidance follows a train getting stuck in flood water near Penrhiwceiber, Rhondda Cynon Taff, where 30 passengers had to be rescued.
Some ferry services to Ireland from Fishguard and Holyhead have also been cancelled and passengers have been advised to check before travelling.Thousands of homes lost power due to strong winds and falling branches but engineers have worked through the night to return power to the majority of households, with the worst of the winds believed to have passed.Some residents of Balboa Island in Newport Beach reported flooding in their homes Thursday morning as heavy rain soaked Southern California, leading to scenes in some places of cars submerged on river-like streets as paddleboarders skimmed by.
City crews pumped water from roads on the north side of Balboa Island as flooding also plagued the Balboa Peninsula, where water was deepest between 13th and 15th streets.In Costa Mesa, many parts of the city were hit by flooding, with some streets closed until the water receded.
The Newport-Mesa Unified School District said four schools halted classes early because of the conditions: Newport Harbor High, Corona del Mar High and Middle and Back Bay High.
In Laguna Beach, Coast Highway in South Laguna was closed between Third and Ninth avenues due to flooding.Thursday’s morning burst of rain hit low-lying Balboa Island hard, and high tide, which peaked at 6.1 feet at about 7:45 a.m., didn’t help. Video posted to social media showed one home with flooding in its basement deep enough to submerge a pool table.
Above ground, city crews in hooded neon-green coveralls pumped water into the bay on the north side of the island between Diamond and Apolena avenues, where standing water remained ankle-deep in spots as the tide receded in the afternoon. Marine Avenue, the island’s commercial artery, had more darkened storefronts than open shops. Even the usually bustling Starbucks was quiet when UPS driver Mel Sievers ducked in for a quick lunch break.
Sievers apologized to the baristas about the wet spot he left around his seat. They didn’t mind, and he couldn’t help it, as he’d been delivering on the drenched island for about four hours and was about to head out for more.
He described rainwater overflowing the curbs on Agate Avenue on the island and spewing from a manhole like a geyser on Bayside Drive just across the channel on the mainland.
He said he hadn’t seen rain like that in this area in 25 years.
The city of Newport Beach reported at about 11:30 a.m. that northbound lanes of Jamboree Road near San Joaquin Hills Road were closed because of a traffic collision and flooding. The closure was lifted after several hours.
Newport Beach spokeswoman Tara Finnigan said residents can receive up to 10 unfilled sand bags from the city to help with flood control. The bags will be available from 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. Friday at the city corporation yard, 592 Superior Ave. The city of Costa Mesa reported flooding with water depths of 2 to 4 feet at 19th Street and Anaheim Avenue, 19th and Park Drive, 18th Street and Anaheim Avenue and 17th Street and Pomona Avenue. Several vehicles were submerged in floodwater at 17th and Pomona.
The city said its facilities at Lions Park had been closed the rest of the day because of flooding.
Sandbags are available for residents at City Hall, 77 Fair Drive, the city said.The ferocity of the rain that rolled into the area overnight and continued into Thursday caught forecasters by surprise. The storm, which began with scattered showers Wednesday, was predicted to be much weaker.
“Yesterday, the difference was we had east winds that were drying things out, so not much rain was falling,” Keily Delerme, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service, said Thursday. “Today, those winds have weakened, and it’s allowing for more rain to fall.”
The storm is expected to linger through early Friday and drop up to an inch and a half of rain on much of the region, forecasters said.
The ferocity of the rain that rolled into the area overnight and continued into Thursday caught forecasters by surprise. The storm, which began with scattered showers Wednesday, was predicted to be much weaker.
“Yesterday, the difference was we had east winds that were drying things out, so not much rain was falling,” Keily Delerme, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service, said Thursday. “Today, those winds have weakened, and it’s allowing for more rain to fall.”
The storm is expected to linger through early Friday and drop up to an inch and a half of rain on much of the region, forecasters said. Maria completely destroyed tens of thousands of homes and left hundreds of thousands more with major damage. The storm and its effects killed approximately 2,975 people, according to a George Washington University study. Most of Puerto Rico lost power and hundreds of thousands were left in the dark for months.

Wyoming GOP Sen. Michael Enzi, chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, sent a letter to FEMA administrator Brock Long Nov. 29 after The New York Times reported that millions of dollars in aid is being lost in a system of contra. When it comes to delivering toys to areas hard hit by Hurricane Michael, Santa's sleigh got an assist from a 24-foot moving truck.

At a Rebuild 850 toy drive in the Tallahassee Democrat parking lot Thursday, residents, businesses and organizations donated artwork, dolls, action figures, bicycles, and athletic equipment. 

"Everything you can possibly imagine for ages 0 to 18. That truck was at maximum capacity," said AMWAT CEO Gloria Pugh, one of the organizers of the event. "It was just unbelievable." . They also took in $1,680.

The “Fill-A-Truck” toy and funds drive was sponsored by AMWAT Moving Warehousing & Storage, Prime South Properties, Tallahassee Board of Realtors, Sachs Media Group, Rogers, Gunter, Vaughn Insurance, Junior League of Tallahassee and the Tallahassee Democrat.

All toy donations will be distributed thrhHurricane Michael created a giant hole in a north Florida town that is threatening a nearby cemetery and public housing duplexes.

The Tallahassee Democrat reported Sunday that the October storm caused a crater along a street in Bristol that is about 45 miles west of Tallahassee.

A contractor told the newspaper that the hole was 40 to 50 feet deep and roughly 250 feet long. But heavy rain over the weekend was expected to make the crater grow larger. One of the housing duplexes near the hole has already been evacuated.

The newspaper said the crater is the result of major erosion and is not a sinkhole.

Hurricane Michael has caused at least $3.4 billion in insured losses in Floridaough local United Way chapters. Toys will be distributed to families in the counties most affected by the hurricane, including Bay, Gulf, Calhoun, Jackson, Franklin, Liberty, Taylor, Wakulla, Leon, Jackson, Washington, Holmes and Gadsden. Hurricane Maria had a $43 billion impact on the U.S. territory’s economy, $1 billion more than originally estimated, according to an island government report.

The Puerto Rico Planning Board’s report says its calculations took into account millions of dollars received so far in federal hurricane recovery funds and insurance money.

Overall, the board found that the capital of San Juan was among the six most affected cities on the island after the Category 4 storm hit in September 2017, causing more than an estimated $100 billion in damage.“Given the magnitude of the natural disaster, the economic sectors will keep feeling the impact for an undetermined amount of time,” the report says.The board said it came up with the $43 billion figure in part via questionnaires issued to the public and private sectors as well as statistics provided by professional associations through October.

Puerto Rico economist Jose Caraballo said in a phone interview Monday that federal aid and insurance payouts so far have covered only 24 percent of the losses reported.

“A lot remains to be done,” he said. “The economic impact of the reconstruction has not been felt.”

The government said losses for the private sector alone totaled $30 billion, with manufacturing reporting the highest loss of income and agriculture among the highest damage to infrastructure and equipment.

The report comes as Puerto Rico struggles to emerge from a 12-year-old recession and tries to restructure a portion of its more than $70 billion public debt. As the economic crisis continues, Puerto Rico’s governor and a federal control board overseeing the island’s finances continue to clash.

On Monday, the board accused Gov. Ricardo Rossello of signing three executive orders related to increasing employee compensation or benefits without its approval. It also said Rossello has enacted nearly 100 laws without following required protocol. The board warned it would take unspecified action if the governor does not submit the required documents.

A spokesman for the governor did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Hurricane Michael devastated communities along the Florida Panhandle during its October landfall. Weeks later and some 50 miles inland, the storm is still leaving its mark. An onslaught of rain from the third-most-intense U.S. landfalling hurricane on record ripped open a massive crater in Bristol, Florida, a small town of about 1,000 located 45 miles west of Tallahassee, the Tallahassee Democrat reported.

The giant opening has already swallowed trees and pavement, but now, it's threatening housing duplexes — one of which had to be evacuated — and a nearby cemetery. Del Tucker, a Hale Contracting operations manager, measured the rift at up to 50 feet deep, 250 feet long and 60 feet across. “I’m worried it’s going to come down to my house,” said resident Charlie Gitto told the Tallahassee Democrat. “This is scary. I’m afraid somebody’s going to get hurt in this.”

While Tucker believes homes won't be affected by the opening, Robin Hatcher, Bristol City Clerk, says there's reason for concern that the break could cross the street and reach the cemetery before repairs begin.

Despite a common misconception, the crater isn't a sinkhole. Instead, the hole was caused by a large stormwater pipe that began to leak underground months ago and eroded the ground around it. When Hurricane Michael ripped through the area, the excess rainfall sped up the process, widening the hole.

"Every time it rains, there’s another dramatic collapse,” said Hatcher.

Over $200,000 was approved in a federal grant to fix and fill the hole, but workers now have to remove what's slipped and been dumped into it — among other items, there's a flat-screen TV in there — before they can install new pipes and fill it.

The repair should take about two weeks, and in the meantime, people should keep their distance, Tucker said. Loose soil near the edges of the hole can be unsafe and possibly collapse into the rift. The U.S. Post Office in Burgaw suffered serious damage from Hurricane Florence, and repairs have not been completed almost three months later.
A tarp covering the roof, insulation spilling out from removed ceiling tiles, and puddles of water can be seen at the post office on Satchwell Street.
“Hurricane Florence damaged this building extensively,” said Ralph Gardner, who was at the post office on Thursday. “It has hampered postal operations for quite some time, and we need people who are in charge of this building, we need them here to fix the place.”
People trying to use mail services on Thursday afternoon became frustrated when no employees could be found. It’s unclear if this was related to damage to the post office building.
Even though a schedule of hours inside the Burgaw Post Office indicated it would not close until 4:30 p.m., no staff members were around as of 4 p.m. when WECT arrived.
A sign on the front door explained the post office was closed Wednesday for the death of former President George H. W. Bush, but there was no indication the post office was closed on Thursday.
An inside glass door to the post office window was blocked, and employees did not answer another door when customers tried to knock multiple times. "I decided to come here to the post office to mail my aunt’s letter, card, and pictures,” said Jeremiah Rowley. “I got here, and they are closed before the time they are supposed to close, and I don't understand why."
At least eight people trying to use mail services left confused when they could not find an employee Thursday.
“It’s a post office and it’s supposed to be open. It’s government. I don’t understand,” Rowley said. "There’s no warning that they are going to be shut down or closed today.”
“Inefficiency has been created by Hurricane Florence,” Gardner added. "I don’t see it as a dangerous building or anything, but something needs to be done.” Pennsylvania Department of Transportation tells Pittsburgh's Action News 4 more than $2 million in emergency funding has been approved to repair a portion of Hulton Road that is collapsing in Penn Hills.

Overall, 82 landslide areas are being monitored; some support elevated roadways.


Advertisement
Another landslide on Powers Run Road forced traffic to detour Wednesday afternoon, a repeated occurrence that has the attention of PennDOT.

In August, heavy rains caused a landslide in the same area, about 100 yards from the intersection with Freeport Road.

PennDOT says this has happened several times in recent years, and each time, traffic is detoured while the road is cleared of trees, mud and debris.

More than 4,300 vehicles use this stretch of roadway, according to PennDOT's traffic analysis, but how and when engineers will correct the hillside is not yet known. A 30-tonne landslide has left dozens of people "completely cut off" by shutting a road and stopping access to homes.

Some residents are unable to leave their properties following the landslide, which happened during bad weather overnight when a private retaining wall gave way.


Around 20 homes on Garth Road leading to Pen-y-Banc between Porthmadog and Borth-y-Gest have been affected, and Gwynedd Council, officers from Scottish Power and police officers have visited the scene.

Resident Victoria Morris, who was unable to get to work because of the incident, said people were "completely cut off".

"Some of us have been able to walk to Porthmadog via the boatyards to do some shopping for our elderly neighbours," she said.

"The electricity board have been here as there are power cables running through the ground.

"Thankfully, no one was hurt when it happened, as it happened in the night."A 30-tonne landslide has left dozens of people "completely cut off" by shutting a road and stopping access to homes.

Some residents are unable to leave their properties following the landslide, which happened during bad weather overnight when a private retaining wall gave way.


Around 20 homes on Garth Road leading to Pen-y-Banc between Porthmadog and Borth-y-Gest have been affected, and Gwynedd Council, officers from Scottish Power and police officers have visited the scene.

Resident Victoria Morris, who was unable to get to work because of the incident, said people were "completely cut off".

"Some of us have been able to walk to Porthmadog via the boatyards to do some shopping for our elderly neighbours," she said.

"The electricity board have been here as there are power cables running through the ground.

"Thankfully, no one was hurt when it happened, as it happened in the night." At least 10 people have been killed in Rio de Janeiro after a mudslide in the Niteroi area outside the city's downtown on Saturday, officials said.

The mudslide was caused by heavy downpours, Rio's civil defence department head told local media.

The Rio fire department said the dead included a three-year-old boy, two elderly women and a middle-aged man. It did not give any more information about the victims.

According to rescuers, nine homes and a local business were affected by the landslide after days of heavy rain. Eleven people have been rescued from the rubble, including a baby, while at least four people are still missing.

Pastor Pedro Paulo dos Santos called the scene in the Boa Esperanca neighbourhood "a scene of desperation, of crying".

Emergency workers were notified of the landslide at just after 06:00 GMT.

Landslides are common in Rio de Janeiro. Many residents live in hilly areas of the state, often building homes without authorisation. A landslide destroyed a building in Depok, West Java, after heavy rain on Thursday.

The building, located in Tanah Baru subdistrict in Beji, was a mechanical workshop that belonged to a resident named Warta. 

The Depok Public Works and Housings Agency's water resource unit head, Citra Indah Yulianti, said her subordinates had taken care of the damage.

"My team along with [volunteers from] the Babinsa [non-commissioned village supervisory officers] and a nearby community health center worked together to clear up the damage," she said as quoted by kompas.com.

The building was destroyed by the landslide because it stood at the riverbank, which crossed the safety border. "As the ground shifted, it couldn't support the building, hence the landslide," she explained, noting that the incident caused no casualties. 

She called on people whose houses are along riverbanks to remain alert during the rainy season. 

"I suggest for people not stay in such buildings," she said.A powerful earthquake rocked Anchorage on Friday, violently shaking homes and businesses, sending scared residents into the streets and damaging buildings in Alaska's largest city.

The 7.0-magnitude quake struck at 8:29 am (1729 GMT), in the middle of the school run and as workers were heading out for the day.

Several people were wounded, mainly from broken glass and falling objects, but no deaths were reported, according to US media.

The epicenter of the quake was about eight miles (13 kilometers) north of Anchorage at a depth of 25 miles, according to the US Geological Survey.

Police in the city of around 300,000 said it had caused "major infrastructure damage."

"Many homes and buildings are damaged," the police department said in a statement. "Many roads and bridges are closed. Stay off the roads if you don't need to drive."

A tsunami warning was issued for the Cook Inlet and the Kenai Peninsula following the massive quake but was quickly lifted.

Residents posted pictures and videos to Twitter of damage to their homes and stores -- belongings knocked off of shelves, broken windows and pictures scattered on the floor.

Local CBS television affiliate KTVA posted a video of a room shaking back and forth with panels falling from the ceiling and lights flickering on and off as people hid under desks.

"Everyone just sprinted out of the coffee shop I was at in Anchorage in the middle of a huge earthquake," Nat Herz, a reporter with news portal Alaska's Energy Desk, posted on Twitter.

"Car alarms going off, etc. But not seeing any serious damage here aside from random stuff falling over. People going back to computers, meetings."

Alaska Senator Lisa Murkowski said the authorities were worried about access to power following the quake.

"It's winter. It's cold. It's dark. And we're not sure what the power situation is," she said. "We're worried about breaks in gas lines." ENSTAR Natural Gas asked residents to beware of gas leaks while the main water company said there had been water main breaks.

Municipal Light & Power warned of possible downed power lines and said it was seeking to restore electricity to affected customers.

About two and a half hours after the quake, the utility said approximately 7,000-10,000 customers were still without power.

The company said there was no damage to electricity generation infrastructure.

The University of Alaska announced it was closing for the day. "All non-essential personnel should go home," it said in a tweet.

Anchorage airport temporarily halted inbound and outbound flights after the air control tower was evacuated.

In an audio recording posted online, an air traffic controller could be heard telling a FedEx cargo plane to go around -- abort its landing -- as the quake hit.

A video posted to Twitter showed a buckled road on a highway exit ramp leading to the airport and a stranded car.

The Anchorage School District told parents to come pick up their children "when you feel it is safe to do so."

The Trans Alaska Pipeline, one of the longest crude oil pipelines in the world, was shut down as a precautionary measure so crews could inspect the system, but returned to service after no damage was found.

White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders said President Donald Trump had been briefed about the quake and was monitoring damage reports.

"To the Great people of Alaska. You have been hit hard by a 'big one,'" Trump tweeted. "Your Federal Government will spare no expense. God Bless you ALL!"

Trump declared a state of emergency in Alaska, releasing federal aid.

Alaska was hit by a 9.2-magnitude earthquake in March 1964, the strongest ever recorded in North America. It left 139 people dead.
Flash floods and landslides killed at least 12 people in central Vietnam, officials said Sunday, as hundreds of troops were dispatched to clean up destroyed villages and washed out roads. Heavy rains pounded the central Khanh Hoa province over the past few days as tropical depression Toraji blew in from the South China Sea, triggering landslides that wiped out houses and destroyed a small reservoir.
At least a dozen people have been killed so far while a search was ongoing for several others, an official from the provincial disaster office told AFP, refusing to be named.
"We have mobilised hundreds of army troops to help people restore lives and clean up damaged roads," he said.
The main highway linking north and south Vietnam was temporarily blocked and some railway routes were interrupted, while images on state media showed destroyed houses buried under debris and vehicles submerged in floods.
Panicked residents told of running from their homes as landslides rumbled down nearby mountains.
"We ran away after hearing the huge sound of fallen rocks... When we returned a few hours later, all our houses were destroyed," said Nha Trang city resident Liem, quoted by Khanh Hoa province's official online news site.
Khanh Hoa—home to the popular coastal resort city of Nha Trang - was ravaged by typhoon Damrey last year, which killed 27 people.
Vietnam is routinely hit by heavy rains during typhoon season from May to October.
At least 185 people have been killed in natural disasters across Vietnam since January.
Last year, 389 people were reported dead in natural disasters, causing damage worth $2.6 billion, according to official figures. A landslide has hit Peru, burying some 80 houses.

The avalanche of rocks and mud fell on a town in the Huanuco province, about 350km northeast of Lima, according to Peru's civil defence agency INDECI.

Emergency shelters have been set up for the affected families and troops sent to secure the area.

Fortunately, no death was reported in the landslide, but the rains are expected to continue and there is a risk of more landslides in the coming weeks.

Rains across South America are expected to be heavy between November and March because El Nino is developing in the Pacific Ocean.

El Nino is the slight warming of the waters in the Pacific and is known to affect the weather around the world, often triggering floods in Central Africa, a warm winter in eastern Canada, and a drought in Southeast Asia.

In South America, El Nino usually brings flooding to Peru, Bolivia, northern Chile and northern Argentina. Although the El Nino conditions are still emerging, it appears that the rains have already started.

Over the past few days, torrential rains have been falling over parts of Peru, with landslides already hitting the Bagua city of Amazonas region. Many other mountainous regions are on a high alert.

Argentina has also been hit by severe storms. On Saturday, the first leg of the Copa Libertadores football final between Argentina's Boca Juniors and River Plate had to be postponed because heavy rain triggered flooding.

On Monday, a large tornado was caught on the camera in Santa Fe province.

The precipitation in Argentina has eased for now, but heavy rain is forecast over the weekend.

In Peru, heavy showers are likely and the whole region looks set for more wet weather disruption over the coming months. Wheat and opium farmer Murad Khan Ishaqzai, 80, has never seen a drought as bad as the one ravaging western Afghanistan where more than 250,000 people have been forced to abandon their homes.

After his crops dried up in Gormach district of Badghis province earlier this year, Ishaqzai rented a truck and drove his family hundreds of kilometres through Taliban-infested areas to the neighbouring province of Herat.
There, he and his family of seven took refuge in a squalid camp on the rocky outskirts of the provincial capital where aid agencies are struggling to meet growing demand for food, shelter and sanitation.
"The farms were destroyed, our livestock perished, and we left our donkeys in the desert because we couldn't feed them any more," said Ishaqzai, his face weather-beaten by a lifetime of working in his field.
It was only the second time in his life that drought had forced him to leave his land.
But with Afghanistan ranked as one of the countries most vulnerable to the impacts of climate change, it may not be the last.
"It's the worst drought I have seen," Ishaqzai told AFP in August.
"We had a lot of opium and wheat—we lost them.
"The land dried up and we didn't have enough to eat."
The United Nations warned in October that at least three million people were in "urgent" need of food due to the dry spell mainly across northern and western Afghanistan, and could face famine if they do not get help. The UN is spearheading international efforts to reach 2.5 million of the three million most in need of food by mid-December, UN humanitarian coordinator in Afghanistan Toby Lanzer told AFP previously.
Conditions are miserable in the camps where families displaced by the drought have settled as temperatures drop across the country.
Ishaqzai is relatively lucky. He and his family have a canvas tent provided by an international humanitarian group. Others are living in pitiful, makeshift tents that offer little or no protection against the cold and rain. Ishaqzai, whose health is failing, wants to go home.
"You can see that my life is almost over in this world," he said.
"If I could have stayed there in Badghis I wouldn't have come here, even if you gave me all of Herat city." On Oct. 11, 1138, the ground under the Syrian city began to shake. The city sits on the confluence of the Arabian and African plates, making it prone to temblors, but this one was particularly nasty. The magnitude of the quake is lost to time, but contemporary chroniclers reported that the city's citadel collapsed and houses crumbled across Aleppo. The death toll of this quake is typically put at about 230,000, but that estimate comes from the 15th century, and the historian may have been conflating the Aleppo quake with another one in Georgia, according to a 2004 paper in the Annals of Geophysics. If Aleppo's death toll is mistaken, the earthquake that hit Haiti on Jan. 12, 2010, may be a contender for the top 10 deadliest disasters. Even in a modern mass disaster, though, estimating the death toll is a tricky business.

In the year after the quake, the government of Haiti estimated that the magnitude-7.0 quake and its aftermath killed 230,000 people; in January 2011, officials revised the figure to 316,000. Those figures are highly disputed, however. A 2010 study published in the journal Medicine, Conflict and Survival put the number at around 160,000 deaths. A 2011 U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) draft report from 2011 claimed even lower numbers — between 46,000 and 85,000.

The disparities reflect the difficulty of counting deaths even in the modern era, not to mention the political wrangling that goes on over "official" numbers. Many critics of Haiti's estimates argue that the government revised the death toll up in order to secure further international aid. On the other side of the argument, according to the Columbia Journalism Review, were those who accused USAID of leaking the report to discredit the Haitian government. A magnitude-9.3 temblor struck undersea off the west coast of Sumatra on Dec. 26, 2004, creating a massive tsunami that killed people in 14 separate countries. The overall death toll is estimated at between 230,000 and 280,000 people. In some places, especially hardest-hit Indonesia, the tsunami wave reached 98 feet (30 meters) in height. Indonesia had the highest death toll of any country, with 126,473 confirmed dead and 93,943 missing, according to official government figures. Sri Lanka followed, with a total of 36,594 dead or missing. On Dec. 16, 1920, a strong earthquake hit Haiyuan Country in central China. According to a 2010 study presented at a conference in honor of the quake's 90th anniversary, 273,400 people died in the quake, most buried in landslides caused by the ground shaking.

According to the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS), the quake was probably a magnitude 7.8 and was felt all the way from the Yellow Sea to Qinghai Province on the Tibetan plateau. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) records show that the quake destroyed four cities and buried multiple towns and villages. At 3:42 a.m. on July 28, 1976, the Chinese city of Tangshan and its surroundings were rocked by a magnitude-7.8 earthquake. Tangshan, an industrial city, had a population of about a million people, and the official death toll was a staggering 255,000. Another 700,000 people were injured, according to "The Great Tangshan Earthquake of 1976: An Anatomy of Disaster" (Pergamon Press, 1988). Many of Tangshan's buildings were completely destroyed, according to that history, and 150,000 people got new residences in the six years following the quake. As with all historical quakes, precise death tolls for the Antioch earthquake of A.D. 526 are hard to come by. But contemporary chronicler John Malalas wrote at the time that about 250,000 people died when the temblor hit the Byzantine city in May of that year. Malalas attributed the disaster to the wrath of God and reported that fires destroyed everything in Antioch that the earthquake itself did not.

According to a 2007 paper in The Medieval History Journal, the death toll was higher than it would have been at other times of the year because the city was full of tourists celebrating Ascension Day. The Coringa cyclone of 1839 hit the port city of Coringa on Nov. 25, whipping up a storm surge of 40 feet (12 meters), according to the NOAA Atlantic Oceanographic and Meteorological Laboratory Hurricane Research Division. About 20,000 ships and vessels were destroyed, along with the lives of an estimated 300,000 people.

Also vying for the No. 5 spot on the list by death toll is an 1881 typhoon that hit Haiphong, Vietnam, on Oct. 8. That storm is also estimated to have killed about 300,00 people. Another storm that wiped out tens of thousands of lives was the Bhola cyclone of Nov. 12, 1970. This storm struck what is now Bangladesh (then East Pakistan), pushing up a 20-foot storm surge that funneled right over the low terrain bordering the Bay of Bengal, causing widespread flooding. A 1971 report from the National Hurricane Center and the Pakistan Meteorological Department acknowledged the challenge of accurately estimating the death toll, especially due to the influx of seasonal workers who were in the area for the rice harvest. However, most estimates place the loss of life from the Bhola cyclone at 300,000 at the low end, ranging up to 500,000. The deadliest earthquake in history hit China's Shaanxi province on Jan. 23, 1556. Known as the Jiajing Great Earthquake after the emperor whose reign it occurred in, the temblor reduced a 621-square-mile (1,000 square kilometers) swath of the country to rubble, according to the Science Museums of China. An estimated 830,000 people died as their homes collapsed and fires raged after the quake. The exact magnitude of the quake is lost to history, but modern-day geophysicists estimate it at around magnitude 8. The Yellow River (Huang He) in China was precariously situated far above most of the land around it in the late 1880s, thanks to a series of dikes built to contain the river as it flowed through the farmland of central China. Over time, these dikes had silted up, gradually lifting the river in elevation. When heavy rains swelled the river in September 1887, it spilled over these dikes into the surrounding low-lying land, inundating 5,000 square miles (12,949 square kilometers), according to "Encyclopedia of Disasters: Environmental Catastrophes and Human Tragedies" (Greenwood Publishing Group, 2008). The deadliest natural disaster in history is likely the Central China floods of 1931. In July and August of that year, the Yangtze River overtopped its banks as the spring melt mingled with heavy rains. (The Yellow River and other large waterways also reached high levels.) According to "The Nature of Disaster in China: The 1931 Yangzi River Flood" (Cambridge University Press, 2018), the flood inundated almost 70,000 square miles (180,000 square km) and turned the Yangzi into what looked like a giant lake or ocean.

Estimates of the overall death toll vary. Contemporary government numbers put the number of dead at around 2 million, but others, including NOAA, say it may have been as many as 3.7 million people. TThe storm moving east from the southwestern part of the country is bringing winter weather conditions with it. Parts of New Mexico, Texas and Oklahoma all had a winter weather advisory in place Friday.

That advisory was put in place and expected to stay in effect until Saturday at 6 a.m. MST. Due to the winter weather, there would likely be some snow accumulation as well as slippery road conditions in the areas for which the warning was issued.

“A Winter Weather Advisory for snow means periods of snow will cause primarily travel difficulties. Expect snow covered roads and limited visibilities, and use caution while driving,” said the warning from the National Weather Service (NWS).

The storm named Winter Storm Diego by The Weather Channel started in California where it caused significant damage, heavy rains and flooding. The storm brought so much flooding after the recent wildfires and in burn areas that some people ended up trapped in their cars.

Additionally, the rain that made highways and airport landing strips to slick that cars and planes alike were sliding when their operators tried to brake. There were also mudslides due to the significant precipitation as well. That storm was making its way across the country, and Friday it was in New Mexico but was expected to keep moving. The storm was expected to be over the Texas and Oklahoma panhandles by early Saturday morning.

Meanwhile, there was also a winter storm watch for North Carolina and Virginia. That weather was expected to form due to the cold and high pressure on the East Coast mixing with the low pressure coming out of the Gulf of Mexico. That was expected to happen from Saturday into Sunday and cause a wintry mix of precipitation.

While some places were expected to see rain and sleet, western North Carolina was expected to see the highest accumulations. That watch was in effect Saturday night until Monday morning and total snow accumulations were expected to be anywhere from one to eight inches depending on the area. Those in the mountains in southwest North Carolina should be on guard for the weather as well as those west of the Blue Ridge Escarpment, according to the NWS.After being struck by lightning in 2017, Steven Tirpak suffered another blow from a force beyond his control when the tornado that ravaged Taylorville destroyed his home Saturday.

Tirpak said no one was home when the tornado passed through Hewittville, the unincorporated community adjacent to the Christian County seat where he was living with his 5½-month-old daughter.

The single father said he is grateful he and his daughter are safe. They are staying with one of his aunts in nearby Stonington and depending on relatives for food and other necessities.

But Tirpak, who is estranged from both daughter Zayanna’s mother and the mother of his other three children, said he is feeling the stress from personal and financial challenges only made worse by the EF-3 tornado that damaged more than 500 homes in the Taylorville area.

“How much more can a daddy take?” Tirpak said through tears. “I’ve always worked and provided for my family. I want to rebuild. That was a home I worked hard for.” However, Tirpak, a skilled laborer, said he doesn’t know where he will get the money to replace the leveled home. He said he didn’t have homeowners insurance because he couldn’t afford it.

Tirpak said he plans to investigate potential assistance from a “Multi-Agency Resource Center” that will be open Friday and Saturday at Taylorville Christian Church, 1124 N. Webster St. The center will be open from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. Friday and 8 a.m. to 1 p.m. Saturday.

An online GoFundMe account that has been set up in his name listed about $2,300 in donations as of Thursday night. The fund can be reached bit.ly/StevenTirpak.Tirpak said he hasn’t felt well enough to work full time and has focused on odd jobs since the lightning strike in July 2017. It took place while he was working as a laborer to install a natural-gas pipeline in the state of Ohio, he said.

The lightning strike, for which he said he was treated and released, triggered chronic migraine headaches and memory issues that he hasn’t addressed with medical specialists because he lacks health insurance.

He told The State Journal-Register that he will look into whether he can qualify for Medicaid.

Investigators are probing a fake invoice fraud that led a Merseyside NHS trust to pay out up to £1m.
Mersey Care NHS Foundation Trust said between £900,000 and £1m was stolen last month in a "sophisticated" scam.
It involved the trust being tricked into paying out on a single bogus invoice.
The trust, which runs mental health and community care, said it was working with NHS Counter Fraud Agency (NHSCFA) "to recover funds where possible".
Chief executive Joe Rafferty confirmed the trust had been "the victim of fraud which has led to the theft of significant funds by external third parties".The trust also runs high security Ashworth Hospital, the Broadoak Unit in Broadgreen and healthcare in HMP Liverpool.
Mr Rafferty said the trust was working with the NHSCA "to ensure that we and others learn from what has been a sophisticated approach to defrauding the trust".
"For someone to possibly target the trust in this manner is a malicious attempt to undermine the work of the NHS, which is facing challenging times," he said.
The NHSCFA said it could not comment on the ongoing investigation.
Figures released in 2017 suggested the yearly bill for fraud in the NHS topped £1bn.A local council in London has come under fire after a report revealed how it failed to stop a contractor from stealing £2m from it.
Former council worker Trishul Shah diverted money from Barnet Council for fake property transactions between 2016 and 2017 while working on a joint outsourcing venture led by Capita.
He was sent to jail for fraud in July.
Council leader Richard Cornelius who is facing calls to resign said the money was recovered.
An independent council-commissioned review by consultants Grant Thornton said the fraud only came to light when Mr Shah's own bank sounded the alarm, according to the Local Democracy Reporting Service.
Latest news and stories from across London
£320m council outsourcing agreed
Barnet outsource legal bid rejected
The review, which was published on Friday, concluded that the council's and Capita's financial controls were "inadequate" and that the fraud could have likely been prevented had they been effective.
Shah used his "intimate knowledge" of the council's financial processes to "perpetrate and conceal" his fraud while working for Regional Enterprise (RE), a 10-year deal the council entered into with Capita in 2013 to provide public services.
RE, which is controlled by Capita, was set up to provide everything from planning and building control to trading standards, highways, cemetery and crematorium services, regeneration and environmental health.
Barry Rawlings, leader of the Labour group at Barnet Council, said the report revealed "incompetence of scandalous proportions" and called on Mr Cornelius and deputy leader Dan Thomas to "take responsibility" and step down.
He added: "The council are clearly not able to manage this kind of commercial relationship, and Capita have demonstrated they are not able to run key services to a basic standard."
Mr Cornelius said: "The most important thing to consider in all of this is that we have ensured that the money was recovered, with no loss to the public purse.
"Action was taken as soon as the issue was identified, we are holding our contractor to account and have made necessary changes."
Capita said it accepted the "need for improvements in financial and governance controls", but it believed the report presented a "limited and highly caveated review".
Shah was jailed for five years at a hearing at Harrow Crown Court on 31 July after pleading guilty to two counts of fraud by abuse of position.Two former directors at Tesco have gone on trial, accused of manipulating figures that resulted in the firm's profits being overstated by £250m.
Chris Bush, Tesco's former UK managing director, and ex-UK food commercial director John Scouler are each charged with one count of fraud and false accounting.
Former UK finance chief Carl Rogberg, charged with the same offences, is not well enough to stand trial.
All three men deny the charges.
In opening arguments at Southwark Crown Court, Sasha Wass, QC for the prosecution, described Mr Bush and Mr Scouler as "generals" and claimed that the "foot-soldiers" working below them were "pressurised and coerced" into wrongly including income into Tesco's financial records to hit targets and make the supermarket look healthier than it was.
In August 2014, Tesco said it expected profits for the first half of the year to be about £1.1bn.
However, weeks later, under the new chief executive Dave Lewis, it said its profits had been overstated by an estimated £250m.
The numbers had been flattered by early recognition of payments from suppliers who sell their goods in the supermarket's stores, as well as delays in charging costs. It was eventually discovered that income had been overstated by £284m.Chinese mega star Fan Bingbing has been fined around 883 million yuan ($129m; £98.9m) for tax evasion and other offences, authorities said Wednesday.
The star, who disappeared in July, posted a long apology on social media.
Ms Fan, who is one of China's highest paid actors, will escape criminal charges if the fines are paid on time, said state news agency Xinhua.
The actress had been linked to a government probe into how celebrities reported earnings in their contracts. Some film stars were alleged to have used so-called "yin-yang contracts" - a practice where one contract sets out an actor's real earnings, and another details a lower figure, with the latter submitted to the tax authorities.
Authorities have now ordered Ms Fan and the companies she controls to pay the huge sum in taxes, fines and penalties.
The 37-year-old actress, who appeared in the X-Men and Iron Man film franchises, has not been seen in public since 1 July and her whereabouts have been the subject of intense speculation. Her current location is unknown but reports say she has been held in secret detention. On Wednesday, the star posted an open apology to her tens of millions of fans on her Weibo account saying: "I've been suffering unprecedented pain recently… I'm so ashamed of what I've done. Here, I sincerely apologise to everyone.
"I completely accept all the penalty decisions made according to law, after the investigation done by tax authorities. I will follow the order, try my best to overcome difficulties, raise fund, pay taxes and fines." She also praised the ruling Chinese Communist Party in her statement, saying: "Without the good policies of the party and the state, and without the love of the people, there would be no Fan Bingbing."
Ms Fan's agent has been detained by the police for further investigation. Her studio had previously said the star never signed "yin-yang" contracts. BBC China correspondent Robin Brant said Ms Fan was the latest high profile figure outside of politics in China to disappear from view over allegations of corruption or tax evasion.
The actress is one of China's most influential celebrities and last year topped Forbes magazine's list of top Chinese celebrities with income of around 300 million yuan ($43m).
 Wednesday's Chinese media is dominated by reports on Fan Bingbing's reappearance, and hundreds of thousands of users of the popular Sina Weibo social media platform are discussing official media reports and her letter of apology.
The official CCTV broadcaster stresses that she has not committed a crime but will be given an administrative punishment. However, Ms Fan has fallen out of favour with the Chinese public over the recent allegations, and users are not sympathetic towards her following her apology, given the millions of dollars in taxes state media say she evaded.
Some express relief that she has reappeared on social media after her lengthy silence. But many say that they don't think her apology is sufficient and say she should go to prison or be blacklisted by the entertainment industry.
Some feel her celebrity status has saved her from conviction and say that regular Chinese would be held criminally responsible for much smaller amounts of money.
In any case, it is extremely difficult for Chinese celebrities to bounce back after a scandal - especially one of this magnitude.﻿A homeless man has been charged with fraudulently obtaining food and housing intended for Grenfell Tower survivors and bereaved families.
Moses Ettienne, 48, allegedly claimed he was a resident in the tower block on the night the blaze left 72 people dead in June 2017.
Mr Ettienne was arrested and charged with one count of fraud by false representation, the Met Police said.
He will appear at Westminster Magistrates' Court on Monday.
he PPI insurance mis-selling scandal has turned many Britons into fraudsters, one of the UK's top bankers has claimed.
Barclays chairman John McFarlane said it was "inconceivable" that all the claims fuelling a "flat-screen television" buying spree were genuine.
"The percentage of fraudulent claims is enormous," he told the Mail on Sunday.
The Financial Conduct Authority said £32.2bn had been paid to claimants since 2011, with £353m paid in July.
But it is thought that the total cost of mis-sold payment protection insurance policies could be around £50bn, and customers can continue making claims until August 2019.
"It is almost inconceivable to think that £50bn was mis-sold," Mr McFarlane told the newspaper. "We have turned portions of Britain into fraudsters."
And he accused the government of being complicit in allowing a PPI compensation culture to develop.
He said: "It was in the government's interests [for claimants to receive compensation]: consumer spending rose and it weakened the banks, so the government is complicit here in the decline of the City... This is stimulation of the economy by buying flat-screen televisions." Banks have had to set aside billions of pounds to settle compensation claims. In July, Barclays blamed PPI charges for taking a chunk out of profits in the first half of this year.
In August, Lloyds Bank set aside another £460m, taking the amount allocated to settle claims to more than £18bn.
However, Mr McFarlane's comment drew fire from consumer groups.
Adam French, consumer rights expert at Which?, said: "This is a slap in the face for consumers ripped off by the PPI scandal. Banks still have a long way to go to restore customers' trust in the industry, and comments like this will not help at all."
And Gillian Guy, chief executive of Citizens Advice, added: "PPI is one of the largest banking scandals in this country's history. It was regularly mis-sold, it was expensive and it was often a poorly designed product that people neither wanted or needed.
"It is right that people are able to claim compensation. The banks dragged their feet when problems with PPI were first raised and they are paying the price for that inaction."
As many as 64 million PPI policies were sold from as long ago as the 1970s.
The policies were designed to cover loan repayments if borrowers fell ill or lost their job.
Not all of them were mis-sold, but sales were pushed on a huge scale to people who didn't want or need them or who could not use them.
The scale of the PPI scandal and its associated compensation claims has prompted concerns that some unscrupulous claims management companies have abused the system.
As well as using management companies, customers can make claims themselves by complaining directly to their provider or via the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Several of Belgium's top football clubs have been raided as part of a police investigation into alleged fraud involving the transfer of players.
Agents, referees and officials from top clubs including Anderlecht, Club Bruges and Standard Liege are being investigated, Belgian media report.
Club Bruges' manager, Ivan Leko, is being questioned, along with prominent Belgian-Iranian agent Mogi Bayat.
More than 200 police officers took part in raids across several countries.
Police also raided properties in France, Luxemburg, Cyprus, Montenegro, Serbia and Macedonia, prosecutors said in a statement.
A number of people now face questioning, the statement said.
The questioning of Mr Leko, whose team Club Bruges are battling to retain their place in the Champions League after losing 3-1 to Atletico Madrid last week, was later confirmed by the club.
It is reported that Mr Bayat was arrested at his home on Wednesday. The agent is reportedly one of the main targets of the inquiry into "financial fraud and money-laundering".
The investigation, which began last year, will focus on "suspicious financial transactions" in Belgian professional football during the 2017-2018 season, according to Belgium's VRT News.﻿In 1931, China experienced arguably the most lethal flood in history. Rivers throughout the country rose onto their plains, inundating an area the size of England and half of Scotland combined. Around a tenth of the Chinese population was affected; over two million people died, either by drowning or by the subsequent famine and epidemics.

While the scale of this disaster was exceptional, devastating floods and droughts had become increasingly common in China since the nineteenth century. Political instability, economic turmoil and incessant warfare had left the population vulnerable to environmental hazards. In most cases, rural communities bore the brunt of these disasters, but the 1931 flood was so extensive that cities also suffered. Nowhere was more profoundly affected than Wuhan, a bustling metropolis in the middle Yangzi region.

Recently, while researching my book on the history of the flood, I found a short book of photographs taken in Wuhan during the disaster, published by the local Zenith Studios. The names of the photographers have long since been forgotten, but their pictures offer a fascinating insight into how a historic population coped with a deluge that inundated their homes for a number of months.

The problems began in the spring as river water began pouring into the streets and mingled with effluent disgorged from overflowing sewers. Soon the whole city was permeated by a horrific stench, which only grew worse under the heat of the sun. Rickshaw pullers and other menial workers had to wade through filthy water to earn a living, while customers perched precariously on the awnings. This was one of many inequalities to define experiences of the disaster.

As the floodwater crept higher, the streets were transformed into canals. Enterprising sampan owners – who ordinarily scraped a living by ferrying cargo around the harbours – began renting out their boats as water taxis. Those who could not afford the grossly inflated fares took to the water in a bizarre flotilla of improvised vessels: rafts made from doors, inflated goatskins and wooden bathtubs. Some people even emptied out coffins and used them as canoes.


1 | Sampans in the flooded streets of Wuhan

In late July, the dykes that encircled Wuhan collapsed. The water that had been held back now cascaded into the city at terrifying speed. Flood waves scoured whole neighbourhoods from the landscape. Thousands of people living in houses constructed from timber and earth drowned or were buried alive. Those who survived salvaged what they could – a little food, religious artefacts, anything buoyant – and began their search for refuge.

As the value of dry space increased, hoteliers tripled their rates, packing rooms well beyond capacity. But buildings that were already compromised by water could not cope with this additional weight, and when one hotel collapsed in August, dozens of people sheltering inside were killed.

 Amid the destruction and chaos, people sought to preserve a sense of normality. Workers in the United States consulate continued to hoist their national flag every morning in accordance with regulations, even though they had to row out to their flagpole. The local traffic police struggled to maintain order in streets overrun by sampans. At first they stood on boxes and tried to keep boats in lanes, but as the floodwater grew deeper they were forced to climb into the branches of trees. And when the water reached a depth of two metres, they could do little but sit back and watch as large cargo junks sailed into the city centre, careering into banks and godowns (warehouses).

One particularly careless junkman sailed his vessel into the Texaco oil depository, causing a huge fire that was too hot for the fire brigade to approach. The fire burned for three days, spewing flaming oil onto the surface of the water, and noxious smoke into the atmosphere. As the city’s electrical system had long since failed, the Texaco fire offered a rare source of illumination, casting its flickering light over apocalyptic scenes: crumbling buildings, howling dogs stranded on rooftops, and thousands of floating corpses.

 Electricity was not the only modern amenity lost to the flood. The telegraph office, telephone exchange and airport were all forced to close. And even if large stretches of the railway line had not washed away, it would have been impossible for trains to approach Wuhan as 30,000 refugees were now living on the embankment.

Though the flood seemed to have deprived Wuhan of many recent technological innovations, in many respects it was a thoroughly modern disaster. It generated risks specific to an industrial city. Loose benzene barrels bounced around the streets, kerosene fire engulfed buildings, and electric shocks killed more than 50 people. Worst of all, the sewerage system – a key emblem of hygienic modernity – emptied the bowels of the city into the streets. Soon residents were in the grip of an unprecedented health crisis. Thousands of people would succumb to dysentery, cholera and other waterborne diseases.

 But residents of Wuhan were not passive in the face of the disaster. China boasted a proud tradition of charitable activity, with philanthropists often funding services that were vital to the survival of disaster-stricken communities. In 1931, the business community in Wuhan raised a substantial fund for flood relief. Some of this money was used to construct a wooden walkway, allowing pedestrians to wobble over the flooded streets. Funds were also used to sponsor rice porridge kitchens, boats to distribute boiled water, and crews to dispose of corpses. Benevolent Halls played an active role in the relief effort, as did Buddhist monks who turned their temples into refugee camps. Traditional medical practitioners massaged the stomachs of starving people and distributed herbal tinctures to prevent exposure.

Later, when the official history of the flood came to be written, the government in Nanjing would depict itself as the heroic saviour of Wuhan, using modern governance to tackle a crisis. But it was traditional institutions that fed and cared for more than half a million people months before shipments of wheat and vaccines arrived in the city.

 This is not to suggest that refugees relied solely upon the assistance of benevolent elites. Like most people affected by disasters, they took responsibility for their own survival. In rural areas, those who had lost their farms foraged for aquatic plants such as lotus, water chestnuts, and wild rice. In Wuhan, people survived by catching fish swimming through the city streets.

The flood may have been a disaster for humans, but it created excellent ecological conditions for other species. Frogs and turtles swam into inundated homes, while one cinema became home to a whole flock of ducks. Some of these species were harmful to humans. The mosquitoes and water snails that thrived in vastly expanded territories caused epidemics of malaria and schistosomiasis. Yet some of the aquatic species that flourished as a result of the flood offered a nutritional windfall for refugees, allowing them to supplement their dwindling diets.  

 Reeds were another flood-resistant species that proved invaluable for refugees. Growing in large stands throughout this wetland region, reeds were a vital architectural material for the poor; they could be knitted together and stretched over bamboo frames to form instant shelters. Though hardly luxurious, these reed huts were both cheap and portable, allowing refugees to escape quickly when water levels rose – or when local communities proved unwelcoming. Refugees experienced both of these problems in 1931.

While some citizens of Wuhan treated displaced people with great generosity, others saw them as a threat to political and economic stability. The local military were convinced that communists were using the refugee crisis as a pretext to infiltrate Wuhan. They declared martial law and began patrolling the streets in sampans with mounted machine guns. Anyone suspected of looting or other subversive activities was executed on the spot. But even such draconian treatment could not quell the paranoia, and eventually soldiers expelled refugees from the city centre at gunpoint, relocating them to ill-prepared camps on the outskirts of Wuhan where thousands would die from disease.

 Conditions could hardly have been more different for the relatively wealthy foreign population of Wuhan. Their exclusive concessions, located in one of the best-protected areas of the city, were among the last areas to be inundated by the flood. When the waters finally did arrive, foreign residents amused themselves by riding horses through the water or playing tennis on roofs.

But before long the novelty wore off. The flood stank, there was no electricity for lights and fans, and the price of vegetables and meat had become extortionate. The solution was to take a ferry to the foreign clubs in the northern part of the city. Unable to indulge in customary amusements – such as horse racing, polo and golf – club patrons stared out onto the flooded grounds, making idle chitchat and drinking. As the city’s ice factory had ceased working, they took their drinks neat while a large number of refugees congregated on the grandstand next to the stables a short distance away. Concerned club owners hired boats to transport their horses to Shanghai, and then petitioned the city authorities to have the refugees removed to preserve the hygienic wellbeing of club members.

 Those who whiled away their hours in the clubhouse were separated by little physical distance from those who sheltered in the grandstand, yet the experiences of these two parts of Wuhan’s population could hardly have been more different. It was as if they were living through two separate floods; one that caused mild inconvenience and boredom, and another that destroyed lives.

On some occasions, disasters can bring communities together, creating what the historian Greg Bankoff has described as “crisis solidarity”. Yet disasters are equally capable of amplifying societal divisions, laying bare the tensions that lie beneath the surface in normal times. Both of these processes were at work in Wuhan in 1931.

While the community was unified by charity and mutual aid, it was also divided by economic calculations and political violence. For refugees, these tensions were just as dangerous as the incessant rainfall and raging rivers. They established the social conditions that helped to translate a natural hazard into a humanitarian disaster.Six men have been jailed over a £17m fraud involving selling solar panels to elderly, retired and vulnerable people.
The 1,500 victims were "manipulated" to buy panels with the promise they would get their money back from investments, the Serious Fraud Office said.
But the jury heard the gang spent the cash on sports cars and holidays.
Ludovic Black, David Diaz, Robert Ross, Kenneth Reid, Stephen Wilson and Niall Hastie were jailed following a trial at Liverpool Crown Court.
The men ran a company called Solar Energy Savings Ltd, based in Manchester, which is no longer trading.
The court heard the victims were promised the cost of the panel installations would be invested and they would get their money back in five years, but as it was never invested, the money was not returned.
The Serious Fraud Office (SFO) said the victims had been "manipulated" by "deceitful sales techniques, outright lies, and false guarantees of reimbursement" which ultimately led to victims losing between £10,000 and £20,000 each.
Ringleaders David Diaz and Ludovic Black, two brothers from Glasgow, were caught during a routine police traffic stop in Cheshire, after 11 months on the run and went on trial in April.
Prosecuting Alastair Webster QC said the fraudsters used a "fake and cynical brochure which told a series of lies".
He said they were "wholly uncaring about the impact on their customers".
Lisa Osofsky, director of the SFO said: "These men built predatory schemes to steal thousands from the hard-earned savings of vulnerable people while pretending to offer them a chance to improve their own financial security."
Ludovic Black, 38, was jailed for seven years and eight months for fraud
His brother David Diaz, 34, was sentenced to six years and eight months for fraud
Robert Orr Ross, 52, from Ayr and Stephen Wilson, 56, from Widnes, Cheshire received sentences of four-and-a-half years
Kenneth John Reid, 60, and Niall Hastie, 54, from Glasgow were both jailed for three-and-a-half yearsA businessman who set up three fake companies to falsely claim more than £200,000 in VAT has been jailed.
Edward Marsh, 52, of Eighth Row, Ashington, ran a legitimate eco-boiler fitting company called Paid 2 Heat.
But he also set up three fake firms for which he submitted 52 monthly VAT returns between December 2015 and May 2017 claiming £208,995 in repayments.
Marsh was jailed at Durham Crown Court for 26 months after admitting VAT fraud.
He was also banned from being a company director for five years and ordered to pay a £120 victim surcharge. Marsh was caught after HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) officers went to his former home and business office in Castle Eden, County Durham, in December 2017 for a standard VAT assurance visit.
During the visit he admitted having only one genuine business and the other companies - Energi 4 Ever, Paid 2 Power and Paid 2 Go Green - never traded.
Marsh said he stole VAT to fund a new business, an HMRC spokesman said.
Cheryl Burr, from HMRC, said: "Marsh was wrong to think he could get away with stealing taxpayers' money. "This is money which should be used to fund our vital public services and not his new business venture.
"He pocketed enough money to pay the salaries for 10 new police officers for a year."﻿In 1931, China experienced arguably the most lethal flood in history. Rivers throughout the country rose onto their plains, inundating an area the size of England and half of Scotland combined. Around a tenth of the Chinese population was affected; over two million people died, either by drowning or by the subsequent famine and epidemics.

While the scale of this disaster was exceptional, devastating floods and droughts had become increasingly common in China since the nineteenth century. Political instability, economic turmoil and incessant warfare had left the population vulnerable to environmental hazards. In most cases, rural communities bore the brunt of these disasters, but the 1931 flood was so extensive that cities also suffered. Nowhere was more profoundly affected than Wuhan, a bustling metropolis in the middle Yangzi region.

Recently, while researching my book on the history of the flood, I found a short book of photographs taken in Wuhan during the disaster, published by the local Zenith Studios. The names of the photographers have long since been forgotten, but their pictures offer a fascinating insight into how a historic population coped with a deluge that inundated their homes for a number of months.

The problems began in the spring as river water began pouring into the streets and mingled with effluent disgorged from overflowing sewers. Soon the whole city was permeated by a horrific stench, which only grew worse under the heat of the sun. Rickshaw pullers and other menial workers had to wade through filthy water to earn a living, while customers perched precariously on the awnings. This was one of many inequalities to define experiences of the disaster.

As the floodwater crept higher, the streets were transformed into canals. Enterprising sampan owners – who ordinarily scraped a living by ferrying cargo around the harbours – began renting out their boats as water taxis. Those who could not afford the grossly inflated fares took to the water in a bizarre flotilla of improvised vessels: rafts made from doors, inflated goatskins and wooden bathtubs. Some people even emptied out coffins and used them as canoes.


1 | Sampans in the flooded streets of Wuhan

In late July, the dykes that encircled Wuhan collapsed. The water that had been held back now cascaded into the city at terrifying speed. Flood waves scoured whole neighbourhoods from the landscape. Thousands of people living in houses constructed from timber and earth drowned or were buried alive. Those who survived salvaged what they could – a little food, religious artefacts, anything buoyant – and began their search for refuge.

As the value of dry space increased, hoteliers tripled their rates, packing rooms well beyond capacity. But buildings that were already compromised by water could not cope with this additional weight, and when one hotel collapsed in August, dozens of people sheltering inside were killed.

 Amid the destruction and chaos, people sought to preserve a sense of normality. Workers in the United States consulate continued to hoist their national flag every morning in accordance with regulations, even though they had to row out to their flagpole. The local traffic police struggled to maintain order in streets overrun by sampans. At first they stood on boxes and tried to keep boats in lanes, but as the floodwater grew deeper they were forced to climb into the branches of trees. And when the water reached a depth of two metres, they could do little but sit back and watch as large cargo junks sailed into the city centre, careering into banks and godowns (warehouses).

One particularly careless junkman sailed his vessel into the Texaco oil depository, causing a huge fire that was too hot for the fire brigade to approach. The fire burned for three days, spewing flaming oil onto the surface of the water, and noxious smoke into the atmosphere. As the city’s electrical system had long since failed, the Texaco fire offered a rare source of illumination, casting its flickering light over apocalyptic scenes: crumbling buildings, howling dogs stranded on rooftops, and thousands of floating corpses.

 Electricity was not the only modern amenity lost to the flood. The telegraph office, telephone exchange and airport were all forced to close. And even if large stretches of the railway line had not washed away, it would have been impossible for trains to approach Wuhan as 30,000 refugees were now living on the embankment.

Though the flood seemed to have deprived Wuhan of many recent technological innovations, in many respects it was a thoroughly modern disaster. It generated risks specific to an industrial city. Loose benzene barrels bounced around the streets, kerosene fire engulfed buildings, and electric shocks killed more than 50 people. Worst of all, the sewerage system – a key emblem of hygienic modernity – emptied the bowels of the city into the streets. Soon residents were in the grip of an unprecedented health crisis. Thousands of people would succumb to dysentery, cholera and other waterborne diseases.

 But residents of Wuhan were not passive in the face of the disaster. China boasted a proud tradition of charitable activity, with philanthropists often funding services that were vital to the survival of disaster-stricken communities. In 1931, the business community in Wuhan raised a substantial fund for flood relief. Some of this money was used to construct a wooden walkway, allowing pedestrians to wobble over the flooded streets. Funds were also used to sponsor rice porridge kitchens, boats to distribute boiled water, and crews to dispose of corpses. Benevolent Halls played an active role in the relief effort, as did Buddhist monks who turned their temples into refugee camps. Traditional medical practitioners massaged the stomachs of starving people and distributed herbal tinctures to prevent exposure.

Later, when the official history of the flood came to be written, the government in Nanjing would depict itself as the heroic saviour of Wuhan, using modern governance to tackle a crisis. But it was traditional institutions that fed and cared for more than half a million people months before shipments of wheat and vaccines arrived in the city.

 This is not to suggest that refugees relied solely upon the assistance of benevolent elites. Like most people affected by disasters, they took responsibility for their own survival. In rural areas, those who had lost their farms foraged for aquatic plants such as lotus, water chestnuts, and wild rice. In Wuhan, people survived by catching fish swimming through the city streets.

The flood may have been a disaster for humans, but it created excellent ecological conditions for other species. Frogs and turtles swam into inundated homes, while one cinema became home to a whole flock of ducks. Some of these species were harmful to humans. The mosquitoes and water snails that thrived in vastly expanded territories caused epidemics of malaria and schistosomiasis. Yet some of the aquatic species that flourished as a result of the flood offered a nutritional windfall for refugees, allowing them to supplement their dwindling diets.  

 Reeds were another flood-resistant species that proved invaluable for refugees. Growing in large stands throughout this wetland region, reeds were a vital architectural material for the poor; they could be knitted together and stretched over bamboo frames to form instant shelters. Though hardly luxurious, these reed huts were both cheap and portable, allowing refugees to escape quickly when water levels rose – or when local communities proved unwelcoming. Refugees experienced both of these problems in 1931.

While some citizens of Wuhan treated displaced people with great generosity, others saw them as a threat to political and economic stability. The local military were convinced that communists were using the refugee crisis as a pretext to infiltrate Wuhan. They declared martial law and began patrolling the streets in sampans with mounted machine guns. Anyone suspected of looting or other subversive activities was executed on the spot. But even such draconian treatment could not quell the paranoia, and eventually soldiers expelled refugees from the city centre at gunpoint, relocating them to ill-prepared camps on the outskirts of Wuhan where thousands would die from disease.

 Conditions could hardly have been more different for the relatively wealthy foreign population of Wuhan. Their exclusive concessions, located in one of the best-protected areas of the city, were among the last areas to be inundated by the flood. When the waters finally did arrive, foreign residents amused themselves by riding horses through the water or playing tennis on roofs.

But before long the novelty wore off. The flood stank, there was no electricity for lights and fans, and the price of vegetables and meat had become extortionate. The solution was to take a ferry to the foreign clubs in the northern part of the city. Unable to indulge in customary amusements – such as horse racing, polo and golf – club patrons stared out onto the flooded grounds, making idle chitchat and drinking. As the city’s ice factory had ceased working, they took their drinks neat while a large number of refugees congregated on the grandstand next to the stables a short distance away. Concerned club owners hired boats to transport their horses to Shanghai, and then petitioned the city authorities to have the refugees removed to preserve the hygienic wellbeing of club members.

 Those who whiled away their hours in the clubhouse were separated by little physical distance from those who sheltered in the grandstand, yet the experiences of these two parts of Wuhan’s population could hardly have been more different. It was as if they were living through two separate floods; one that caused mild inconvenience and boredom, and another that destroyed lives.

On some occasions, disasters can bring communities together, creating what the historian Greg Bankoff has described as “crisis solidarity”. Yet disasters are equally capable of amplifying societal divisions, laying bare the tensions that lie beneath the surface in normal times. Both of these processes were at work in Wuhan in 1931.

While the community was unified by charity and mutual aid, it was also divided by economic calculations and political violence. For refugees, these tensions were just as dangerous as the incessant rainfall and raging rivers. They established the social conditions that helped to translate a natural hazard into a humanitarian disaster.More and more youngsters under the age of 21 are falling victim to money scams, according to the anti-fraud organisation Cifas.
In the first nine months of the year, it said, 3,527 young people had experienced identity fraud, an increase of 24% on 2017.
Most of the cases involved debit, credit and store cards.
They include instances where criminals have applied to banks to get the cards issued in false names. "Our new figures are alarming to say the least," said Mike Haley, the chief executive officer of Cifas.
"For all of us, as parents, teachers, and responsible citizens, we have a duty to ensure we're taking every opportunity to educate young people on the dangers of becoming a fraud victim - and equally, a perpetrator of fraud."
In most cases, the banks usually accept liability where individuals have not been negligent.
The Cifas figures also indicate a rise in the number of youngsters becoming so-called money mules.
In the first nine months of 2018, as many as 9,636 people under the age of 21 agreed that criminals could use their bank account to launder cash.
That was a 26% increase on the same period in 2017.
Sometimes the young people are told to move the money electronically, and sometimes they are asked to withdraw cash before passing it on in person.
The offence can carry a prison sentence of up to 14 years. Alternatively, individuals can be denied the use of a bank account for up to six years.
Cifas is now calling on the banks to do more to warn young people about the dangers of such fraud.
﻿Heavy and steady rain over the past few days has led to extensive flooding over a good part of central and southern China.

Thousands of people have been evacuated from their homes and there has been widespread travel disruption.

These seasonal rains known as the "plum rains" or Meiyu-baiyu rains cause flooding every year, usually affecting the country for around two months between late May and early summer, but they have come a little early this time round.

The torrential downpours arrived in China's Hunan Province on Wednesday. Youxian County was one of the worst hit areas. Up to 150mm of rain was recorded here by Friday morning.

This resulted in a swollen river cutting off the village of Aolin, leaving 1,500 residents stranded. Inflatable boats had to be used in the rescue operations as power supplies were also lost.

Jianghua Yao Autonomous County also suffered extensive damage with crops destroyed and facilities wiped out in dozens of townships.

The rains also extended into eastern and southern parts of the country. The flood-waters were waist-high in parts of east China's Jiangxi Province.

As much as 141mm of rain fell in the low-lying Yongxin County from Thursday into Friday, leaving hundreds more people stranded.

Further south, Guigang City was also in a serious state of flood. Washed-out cars were left abandoned on the roads. Rainfall totals reached 272mm in Guilin City by Friday morning.

Traffic was also disrupted across Guangdong Province and schools were forced to close. More than 200 pupils were trapped in one school and had to retreat to the second floor of their building as the waters reached two metres deep in places.

Quieter weather is expected over the next few days before further heavy showers return to central China by the middle of next week.

A care worker who stole £16,500 from a "vulnerable" man with dementia to buy herself luxury items has been jailed.
Jemma Laney from Warrington, Cheshire spent the money she took from her 78-year-old victim on designer clothes and watches as well as trips to Chester Zoo and Alton Towers, said police.
She previously denied two counts of fraud by abuse of position but admitted theft at Chester Crown Court.
Laney, 30, of Great Sankey, was sentenced to 12 months in prison.
The court was told she gained access to her elderly client's funds by opening an online bank account in his name.
Her ill-gotten gains included Michael Kors handbags and purses, a Tag Heuer watch, a Louis Vuitton holdall and scarf, a Stella McCartney handbag and an Emporio Armani watch.
She also booked trips to Alton Towers, Gulliver's World, Haven holiday resorts and Chester Zoo, said police.
Laney even cancelled long-standing direct debits the victim made every month to charities.Det Con Ian Morris said: "Laney used the victim's failing health as an opportunity to steal money and spend it on luxury items for herself.
"This is a shocking way to treat a vulnerable man and I hope this sentence brings some comfort to the victim."
The 30-year-old carer was employed by an agency to help the man prepare his evening meals and take his medication.
During an interview with police, Laney claimed that the victim gave her his bank card and statements, telling her: "They are going to take everything, spend it all."
The fraud was discovered after the victim's social worker encouraged him to open some bank statements and noticed a number of suspicious transactions, said police.
The records of 500 million customers of the hotel group Marriott International have been involved in a data breach.
The hotel chain said the guest reservation database of its Starwood division had been compromised by an unauthorised party.
It said an internal investigation found an attacker had been able to access the Starwood network since 2014.
The company said it would notify customers whose records were in the database.
Marriott International bought Starwood in 2016, creating the largest hotel chain in the world with more than 5,800 properties.
Starwood's hotel brands include W Hotels, Sheraton, Le Méridien and Four Points by Sheraton. Marriott-branded hotels use a separate reservation system on a different network.
Marriott said it was alerted by an internal security tool that somebody was attempting to access the Starwood database. After investigating, it discovered that an "unauthorised party had copied and encrypted information".
It said it believed its database contained records of up to 500 million customers.
For about 327 million guests, the information included "some combination" of:
name
address
phone number
email address
passport number
account information
date of birth
gender
arrival and departure information
It said some records also included encrypted payment card information, but it could not rule out the possibility that the encryption keys had also been stolen.
"We deeply regret this incident happened," the company said in a statement.
"Marriott reported this incident to law enforcement and continues to support their investigation. The company has already begun notifying regulatory authorities."
The company has set up a website to give affected customers more information. It will also offer customers in the US and some other countries a year-long subscription to a fraud-detecting service.
In a statement, the UK's Information Commissioner's Office said: "We have received a data breach report from Marriott involving its Starwood Hotels and will be making enquiries. If anyone has concerns about how their data has been handled they can report these concerns to us."
What should I do if I'm affected?
The Marriott group said it would contact affected customers whose email addresses were in the Starwood reservation database.
The database contained details of reservations made on or before 10 September 2018.
The company has set up a dedicated help website for those affected and is also operating a free helpline. For UK customers the number is 0808 189 1065.
Marriott is not certain whether the attackers were able to obtain payment information, so be aware of any suspicious transactions on your account.
Also be aware that scammers may be sending out mass emails pretending to represent the Marriott group.
The company says it will not include attachments in its notification emails and will not ask for personal information over email. If in doubt, call the helpline.
The company is offering affected customers a year-long subscription to a fraud-checking service. 
It's not the biggest data breach we've ever seen (that dubious honour goes to Yahoo!) but it's certainly up there with some of the worst.
Not only were up to 500 million customer records accessed and potentially copied, but the attackers had had unauthorised access since 2014.
And even though payment card information was encrypted, the company thinks the key may have been stolen too.
The UK's data regulator has confirmed it is investigating, and so the threat of a whopping GDPR penalty looms.
Although the Marriott group's headquarters are in the US, it has to comply with the EU's GDPR rules when dealing with citizens in the EU.
The way it has disclosed this breach, notified customers and offered fraud-checking services will certainly help its cause.
But the ICO and other international regulators may rule the company has been too slow to act.
As always with a big data breach, be aware that scammers may send out emails claiming to be from the Marriott group.
The hotel chain says it will not send any notification emails with attachments, and will not request any information from its customers by email.﻿Over the years, major hurricanes have taken a severe toll on South Carolina, and some of them have been used as teaching moments to improve emergency preparedness. 

Hurricane Hugo made landfall in Charleston on Sept. 22, 1989. The Category 4 storm with estimated winds of 135 to 140 mph brought $7 billion in damages and was responsible for 49 fatalities directly related to the storm, including 26 people killed in the U.S., according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

About 90,000 people were sheltered throughout the event. Extensive wind damage was recorded across South Carolina and into North Carolina.

"Hugo for us is kind of the benchmark," said Kim Stenson, South Carolina's Emergency Management Division director. "Now we measure our other hurricanes against it because of the severity of it."

Deemed one of the strongest hurricanes in all of South Carolina's history, Hugo began as a Category 5 hurricane in the Atlantic and was a Category 4 storm by the time it hit landfall on Sept. 22, 1989

Hugo produced the highest storm tide heights ever recorded along the U.S. East Coast, around 20 feet near Charleston, according to NOAA.

The state's emergency management division estimates that based on development and growth, had Hugo hit in 2009 there would be $8 billion in damages with more than 21,000 homes destroyed.

Hurricane Floyd made landfall on Cape Fear, North Carolina, on Sept. 16, 1999, as a Category 2 hurricane.

Excessive rainfall was widespread and caused severe flooding in several nearby states including South Carolina. In all, the storm claimed 56 deaths in the U.S. and caused up to $6 billion in estimated damages.

More than 2 million people were evacuated in the U.S., according to NOAA.

"Getting out of Charleston was a problem," said Stenson. "With Floyd, we had issues with evacuations and we've completely revamped how we do evacuations in terms of reversing the interstates."

Though Matthew was a Category 1 hurricane by the time it hit South Carolina's coast, making its fourth landfall, heavy rainfall and flooding brought crippling damages to the state.

Matthew was responsible for 25 in North Carolina and four in South Carolina primarily due to flooding. Damages were estimated to be about $10.3 billion across the U.S., according to NOAA. Primarily due to flooding, private insurance claims totaled $550 million including $52 million in crop damage.

Hitting McClellanville on Oct. 8, 2016, Matthew became to the first October hurricane to make landfall north of Florida since Hurricane Hazel in 1954. Wind gusts were recorded at 87 mph in Hilton Head.

During Matthew 12 to 18 inches of rain fell over parts of the Carolinas, coming on the heels of an additional 6 to 10 inches of rain from a prior tropical storm.

At least 800,000 homes and businesses throughout the Carolinas were without power.

Irma formed as a Category 5 hurricane while going through the Caribbean on Sept. 6, 2017 but weakened to a Category 1 hurricane when passing between Orlando, Florida, and Tampa, Florida, on Sept. 11, 2017. The same day, South Carolina and Georgia reported tropical storm conditions from Irma.

Tide levels at South Carolina's coast were three to five feet above ground level. Beaufort recorded 9 inches of rainfall throughout the storm, producing flash flooding and moderate river flooding.

An EF-1 tornado was also recorded in John’s Island, causing a half-mile path of house and tree damage.

Irma was linked to 47 direct deaths for strong winds, heavy rain and high tide across the Caribbean and southeastern U.S., according to NOAA.The UK has called for urgent changes to international aid rules so that its aid budget can be used to help victims of natural disasters like Hurricane Irma.

Under international rules, Anguilla, Turks and Caicos and the British Virgin Islands are considered too wealthy to qualify for assistance.

But International Development Secretary Priti Patel said they should consider the impact of natural disasters.

She said the rules needed to be "relevant and up to date".

Ms Patel said: "We believe that the international rules should take into account the vulnerabilities of small island states.

"These rules were first established over 40 years ago.

"The world has changed dramatically since then, and we will work constructively with international partners to ensure the rules remain relevant and up to date."

Earlier, Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson said a way would be found to use some of the UK's 13bn aid money.

He made the comments during a joint press conference in London with US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson.

Describing his recent visit to the British Virgin Islands (BVI) and Anguilla, Mr Johnson said: "I've never seen anything like it - like the destruction... you see in images from the First World War.

"And I think anybody with an ounce of compassion would want to see spending by our government on getting those people back up on their feet and indeed on getting those British - and I stress - British overseas territories helped in the long term."

Anguilla, Turks and Caicos, and the British Virgin Islands are among 14 self-governing British overseas territories.

The UK government is responsible for their defence and security and has a duty to protect them from natural disasters.

But under international rules they do not qualify for official aid because their national incomes are too high.

The rules are agreed by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, of which Britain is a member.

They make clear that only the poorest countries can receive what is known as official development assistance or ODA.

The Department for International Development insisted the fact the territories were not eligible for official development assistance had not affected the UK's emergency relief.

And officials denied that claims that five times as much money would have been available if ODA could have been used. 

Mr Johnson this week visited Anguilla's worst-hit areas, before heading to the neighbouring British Virgin Islands.

During the trip, he promised 25m more relief money on top of the 32m already being spent in the Caribbean, with the money coming from different departmental budgets.

The announcement comes amid criticism from Caribbean residents and senior MPs that the UK's response to the disaster was too slow.

Anguillan chief minister Victor Banks welcomed the visit but said the money offered by the government so far was "not enough".

The former attorney general of Anguilla, Rupert Jones, told the Guardian the 32m hurricane relief fund was a "drop in the Caribbean Sea".

Mr Johnson defended the government's response as being "extremely fast", while the Foreign Office said more than 1,000 UK military personnel were in the region helping with the relief effort, with 200 more arriving in the next few days.﻿Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos has defended his government's response to the Mocoa landslide, saying rescue agencies were brought together just hours after the disaster.

Mr Santos has faced criticism for the relief effort but told the BBC it was "natural" for those affected by the landslide to blame the government.

He blamed climate change, caused by richer countries, for the disaster.

At least 263 people died when mud and rocks hit the town early on Saturday.

The Red Cross says more than 300 people are still listed as missing.

The flood followed a night of heavy rain which raised the level of the Mocoa River and three tributaries, sweeping away entire neighbourhoods.

Mr Santos declared an "economic, social and ecological emergency" and pledged 40,000m pesos ($13.9m; £11.1m) in aid for the stricken south-western town.

But many residents have criticised his government for slow response and a lack of planning.

"It's very natural that people who are suffering from such a tragedy will be anxious and try to blame someone and of course they would blame the government," Mr Santos told the BBC.

"What I can tell you is that the way we responded, especially how fast we responded, has no precedents in Colombia or in many other disasters in the world."

He said new systems had been put in place following deadly floods in 2010 attributed to the La Niña climatic phenomenon.

"We have a system, which we have been elaborating and creating after the phenomena of La Niña, which was the worst natural disaster at the beginning of my government, and the system is working," Mr Sa

ntos said.

"We put in place a central command where all the institutions that are involved started to work 12 hours after the disaster. This is something we have never seen before either here or in any other countries around the region."

Mr Santos said the tragedy was a demonstration that climate change "has terrible effects".

"Rich countries are the ones that have created climate change more than poor countries," he said.

"All the world is vulnerable to climate change, but a country like Colombia is especially vulnerable because of our geography and location.

"The intensity of the rain - it rained in two hours what would usually rain in one month. That intensity produced the avalanche that is a direct product of climate change."

Meanwhile, families in Mocoa have been continuing to bury victims of the landslide.

At the town cemetery, Flor Enil Lozada wept over the wooden coffin of her son Jhon, 22, who was swept away along with his wife and 18-month-old daughter.

"They loved each other so much. He adored the little girl," she said.

Officials say 80% of the town, which has a population of about 70,000, is still without electricity.
ANKARA

The 10 deadliest earthquakes in human history took a collective death toll of over 2.5 million people.

Nine of these earthquakes took place in Asia. The most casualties in an Asian quake were seen in China, with some 1.3 million people losing their lives in three quakes, according to the U.S. Geological Survey.

The Jan. 23, 1556 earthquake in the northwestern province of Shaanxi (formerly Shensi) was the deadliest earthquake in history. It is estimated that the magnitude of the quake, which took place during the Ming Dynasty, was 8. Nearly 830,000 people are believed to have died.

Two other of the deadliest earthquakes took place in Iran over 1,100 years ago. According to verbal and written sources, 350,000 people lost their lives in the two quakes.

The deadliest earthquakes in history:


Shaanxi earthquake, China, Jan 23, 1556.

The Shaanxi earthquake is known as the deadliest earthquake in history. It took place in the northwestern Shaanxi province (formerly Shensi) on Jan 23, 1556. 830,000 people are estimated to have died in in the 8-magnitude quake.

Some 840 kilometers of the area were devastated by the quake, and nearly 60 percent of the regions population lost their lives.


Tangshan earthquake, China, July 28, 1976

The second-deadliest earthquake also happened in China. The Tangshan quake -- causing the most casualties in the last hundred years -- hit the industrial city of Tangshan on July 28, 1976. Some 255,000 people died in the 7.8-magnitude earthquake, and an 800,000 were injured.

The earthquake destroyed nearly 180 buildings in only about 10 seconds, and caused damage as far away as Beijing.


Aleppo earthquake, Syria, Oct. 11, 1138

The third-deadliest earthquake in history struck the northern Syrian Aleppo province on Oct. 11, 1138. More than 230,000 people lost their lives. The magnitude of the quake is unknown.


Sumatra earthquake, Indonesia, Dec. 26, 2004

Fourteen countries in the South Asian and African coasts of the Indian Ocean were affected by 9.1-magnitude earthquake which hit Indonesias island of Sumatra. More than 227,000 people lost their lives and 50,000 people disappeared in Indonesia in the quake and subsequent tsunami. Nearly 1.7 million people were displaced.


Haiti earthquake, Jan. 12, 2010

Approximately 222,000 people died in this magnitude 7 earthquake in Haiti, and more than 300,000 people were injured. 1.3 million people were displaced by the quake, and nearly 100,000 houses were destroyed.


Damghan earthquake, Iran, Dec. 22, 856

More than 200,000 people were killed in the 7.9-magnitude earthquake that struck Irans northeast Semnan province in the Damghan region. The sixth-deadliest quake took the most casualties in Iranian history.


Haiyuan earthquake, China, Dec. 16, 1920

It took place on Dec. 16, 1920 in Haiyuan County, Ningxia Province, China. The Ganyanchi earthquake -- as it is also called -- claimed the lives of more than 200,000 people.


Ardabil earthquake, Iran, on Mar. 23, 893

This destructive quake struck the city of Ardabil in Iran, on March 23, 893. More than 150,000 people lost their lives.


Kanto earthquake, Japan, Sept. 1, 1923

The Kanto quake was the deadliest in Japan's history. 142,000 people were killed in the 7.9-magnitute earthquake, which brought extreme destruction to the Tokyo-Yokohama area. More than 380 houses burned after the earthquake as well.


Ashgabat earthquake, Turkmenistan, Oct. 5, 1948

More than 110,000 people were killed in the 7.3-magnitude earthquake that took place on October 5, 1948 in Ashgabat, the present capital of Turkmenistan.﻿The number of confirmed deaths from the collapse of a dam in Brazil has risen to 17, according to an update from mining giant BHP Billiton.

Two people working on the dam, which held back waste water from iron ore mining, are unaccounted for, BHP said.

BHP owns the dam with Brazil's Vale via a joint-venture, Samarco. A court has frozen their assets in the country.

The firms have appointed a New York law firm to investigate the cause of the dam rupture, BHP's statement said.

A federal court has ruled that the potential damages from the disaster could be about 20.2bn reais ($5.2bn; £3.4bn). The companies' assets were frozen amid concerns that Samarco does not have enough resources to cover the cost of damages and compensation.

BHP's statement said the court had ordered Samarco to put 2bn reais into a court-managed bank account within 30 days. A daily fine of 1.5m reais applies for non-compliance with this deadline.
'Not natural disaster'

On 28 November, the Brazilian government filed a lawsuit against Samarco for the environmental damage caused by the accident.

Environment Minister Izabella Teixeira said the accident in the south-eastern state of Minas Gerais had "a huge impact from an environmental point of view".

The village of Bento Rodrigues was totally destroyed and the mud generated by the 5 November dam collapse polluted drinking water over a vast area.

The money will be used to compensate the victims and help repair the environment.

"It is not a natural disaster, it is a disaster prompted by economic activity, but of a magnitude equivalent to those disasters created by forces of nature," said Ms Teixeira when the lawsuit was filed.﻿The aftermath of the earthquake in central Italy that has left more than 240 people dead dominates the front pages of the press on 25 August, with some papers wondering why the tragedy was not prevented.
'The cursed moment'

Images splashed across major newspapers are filled with a sense of anxiety and grieving, showing rescued people sitting on the ground covered in blankets, shop signs with letters destroyed by the earthquake and giant piles of rubble.

Coverage focuses on personal stories, with some papers painting a grim picture of the devastation.

"The night of anxiety, fear and searching for the missing", says a headline in La Repubblica daily. 

"Coffins in the children's playground in a village that is no more" reads a front page headline in Corriere Della Sera daily. "In Pescaro del Tronto a kindergarten is now a morgue, an open morgue under clear skies amidst tears and rubble", the report says. "This village has no future anymore."

"The cursed moment of earthquake", echoes a headline on the front page of a local Pescara-based daily newspaper, Il Centro. "My new one-storey house, completely covered in reinforced concrete, trembled. It shook. Like a twig in the sea," writes Giustino Parisse in a blog.
'Anger is stronger than pain'

Some Italian commentators also express frustration with construction standards in the quake-prone area. 

"I have to say that the anger is stronger than the pain. The anger at the thought that this destruction could have been avoided," writer Dacia Maraini says in Corriere Della Sera. "Can it be that we have not built smartly, anticipating dangers, taking into account earthquake-resistant standards that exist and are very efficient?"

"Town councils should do much more in terms of the rigorousness of earthquake-resistant standards and promoting awareness of the risk. Instead, we are always fatalists, hopeful that it will affect somebody else," echoes civic engineering professor Enzo Scandurra on the Quotidiano.net news website.
'Big-heartedness'

Italian media also note that the natural disaster has mobilised society, propelling ordinary Italians and social media users to co-ordinate and offer help.

"As if to prove the words of [Italian Prime Minister Matteo] Renzi about Italians' big-heartedness in emergencies, many have mobilised themselves to raise funds and assist in the earthquake emergency," Il Quotidiano.net website says.Storms in the south of France have caused severe flooding.

The city of Montpellier was left under water when nearly half a year's worth of rain fell on Monday.

The storm caused the River Lez to burst its banks and flood the city centre.

On Tuesday, France declared a state of natural disaster in around 60 towns in the south of the country.

Most of the rain fell in just a few hours. 

The rainfall broke all records, which date back to 1957.

More than 4,000 people spent the night in emergency centres and schools.

Rains are expected to ease in the coming days.﻿The Fijian government has declared parts of the country a disaster zone after flooding earlier this week in which at least three people died.

The flooding, caused by a cyclone, came after a prolonged drought.

The government has begun to distribute emergency food to those made homeless. The US city of Houston is in the grip of the biggest storm in the history of the state of Texas, officials say.

A record 30in of rain (75cm) has fallen on the city in the wake of Hurricane Harvey, turning roads into rivers.

The area is expected to have received a year's rainfall within a week. Five people are reported dead. Helicopters have plucked victims from rooftops.

With rescue services overstretched as the rain continues, many people are having to fend for themselves.

Harvey made landfall as a category-four hurricane late on Friday. It was later downgraded to a tropical storm.

Up to 2,000 people have been rescued in and around Houston, the fourth-largest city in the US, where about 6.6m people live in the metropolitan area.

In Washington, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (Fema) said it was committed to assisting in the rescue effort

Fema administrator Brock Long said providing shelter to 30,000 people in need was "going to be a very heavy lift". He added that the agency was also working to restore power and critical infrastructure.

Thousands of homes are without electricity. Many schools are closed - as are the two main airports, with runways completely flooded.

An inundated care home in Dickinson, about 30 miles (50 km) south east of the city, has now been evacuated by helicopter after an image of several elderly women sitting in a lounge in waist-deep water went viral on social media.

Entire suburbs are under water, shops and businesses are shut and, with the motorways around the city cut off and both airports closed, travel is all but impossible.

A marooned hospital has been evacuated while, above the city, engineers are starting an emergency release of water from two bulging dams.

They are warning families who live beside one of the dams to prepare for flooding within hours.

Some residents have been critical of the preparations for this storm, which intensified rapidly in the Gulf of Mexico last week.

In at least one neighbourhood facing severe flooding, people are angry that they were told to stay put only to realise, as night fell, that the waters were rising fast and they could not get out.

The authorities are being stretched to breaking point. It is difficult to see how they could accommodate President Donald Trump, who plans to visit Texas on Tuesday.

If he does decide to travel here, he will find a powerful oil city on its knees.

No. As the storm continues to batter south-eastern Texas, swelling rivers are causing a surge that is heading for Houston.

Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner told residents: "Don't get on the road. Don't assume this storm is over."

Tens of thousands of people have been were ordered to leave parts of Fort Bend County, about 35 miles (55 km) south-west of Houston, where a river is set to crest this week.

Houston authorities, however, have not issued a mass evacuation order.

Mayor Turner on Sunday defended the decision by citing the "crazy" logistics of planning an evacuation of 2.3 million people.

He cited the chaos Houston experienced when residents were evacuated ahead of Hurricane Rita in September 2005. People were stuck for more than 20 hours on gridlocked road, resulting in dozens of deaths.

Rita, which had been predicted to hit Houston, passed well east of the city.

Observers also recalled the disastrous evacuation ahead of Hurricane Katrina, which hit New Orleans in August that year. Thousands of people spent days in squalid conditions and limited water at that city's stadium.

The Texas Gulf Coast is a key centre of the US oil and gas industry, and some of the largest refineries in the country have halted operations.

This has raised concerns about fuel shortages and higher prices at the pump.

The wider economic damage from Harvey is being assessed.

Insurance experts quoted by Reuters news agency say it could equal the devastation inflicted by Hurricane Katrina - reportedly the most expensive natural disaster in US history.

Katrina caused about $15bn (11.6bn) of flood damage in the states of Louisiana and Mississippi.﻿Hurricane Maria killed more than 4,600 people in Puerto Rico, 70 times the official toll, according to estimates in a Harvard University study.

A third of deaths after September's hurricane were due to interruptions in medical care caused by power cuts and broken road links, researchers say.

The Puerto Rico government said it "always expected the number to be higher than what was previously reported".

The official death toll stands at 64.

But experts say an accurate count was complicated by the widespread devastation wreaked by the storm.

Carlos Mercader from Puerto Rico's Federal Affairs Administration said he welcomed the Harvard survey.

"The magnitude of this tragic disaster caused by Hurricane Maria resulted in many fatalities," he said.

He added that the island's authorities had also commissioned George Washington University to study the number of deaths and these findings would be released soon.

"Both studies will help us better prepare for future natural disasters and prevent lives from being lost," he said.

The Harvard researchers said interviews conducted in Puerto Rico suggested a 60% increase in mortality in the three months after the storm.

They contacted more than 3,000 randomly selected households between January and March this year and asked about displacement, infrastructure loss and causes of death.

Many Puerto Ricans we spoke to felt their immense suffering after the hurricane had been trivialised and that the emergency response has been lacklustre.

A relatively small number of people may have been killed by the physical impact of the storm, but six months later we met people who had lost relatives as a result of interrupted medical care and saw others struggling to pay for expensive generators on which they were running vital life support equipment.

There was also reported to have been a spike in the number of suicides. We found many still without homes and thousands who had been living without electricity since the day Hurricane Maria struck.

Whatever the true number of those killed as a result of the storm, it is now certain to be many times the official figure. The question for US authorities about Puerto Rico, an American territory, is how many of those deaths could have been prevented with a better emergency response?

They then compared their results with the official mortality rates for the same period in 2016, more than a year before the hurricane struck the island.

The researchers said that interrupted medical care was the "primary cause of sustained high mortality rates in the months after the hurricane".

Disruption to health care was a "growing contributor to both morbidity and mortality" in natural disasters, they said, because growing numbers of patients had chronic diseases and used sophisticated equipment that relied on electricity.

On Twitter, several users noted that the death toll exceeds the nearly 3,000 Americans that were killed during the 9/11 attacks.

The mayor of San Juan, the largest city in Puerto Rico, tweeted that "the negligence that contributed to [the deaths] cannot be forgotten.

Carmen Yulin Cruz added that the death toll is "a violation of our human rights".

Hurricane Maria caused the largest blackout in US history, according to research consultancy the Rhodium Group.

There have also been repeated power cuts since then, including an island-wide one in April, nearly seven months after the hurricane.

Overall, Hurricane Maria caused losses of $90bn (£68bn), the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (Noaa) said.

The Caribbean island is home to 3.4 million US citizensBuried in a cold basement under tons of crumbled Soviet concrete after a devastating earthquake, six Armenian men ate jarred pickles and canned fruit for 35 days before being miraculously rescued on a wintry day in January 1989.

Seemingly disoriented 50-year-old electrician Haikaz Hakopian was shown on a hospital bed in the Armenian capital, Yerevan, telling the men's amazing tale of underground survival -- the longest anyone had ever spent beneath earthquake rubble and lived to tell about it.

"I remember I was in the cellar with my neighbors and then dishes started breaking," Hakopian recounted. "I remember we tried to get up. I don't remember much after that."

He added that he had sung songs and told tales to help keep the other five men entertained during their ordeal, dubbed by Soviet news agency TASS the "Leninakan miracle," after the city where it all happened.

Hakopian and the others' saga reverberated throughout the Soviet Union and beyond, and was quickly picked up by foreign media outlets, including The New York Times.

It was an inspirational story of human hope and survival, but there was one problem: It was a hoax.

An early instance of fake news, Soviet-style.

The tragedy itself had been all too real. The temblor that struck northern Armenia on December 7, 1988, killed more than 25,000 people, injured up to 130,000, and left hundreds of thousands homeless or without basic supplies.
But exactly two weeks later, a Libyan bomb blew up Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland, killing all 259 people aboard and 11 more on the ground. That brutal terrorist attack snatched the global spotlight from Armenia and vast swaths of the international community seemingly forgot about the plight of the earthquake's victims.

That's when Artyom Shahbazian, a reporter for Soviet Armenia's Armenpress news agency, decided to fabricate a remarkable story to refocus global attention on Soviet Armenia's horrific tragedy, three of his former colleagues tell  -- who emigrated to Israel after the break-up of the Soviet Union before his death some three years ago -- was convinced that his countrymen needed his help, they said.

"Western countries had already begun to forget about it," Lyova Azroyan, a longtime Armenpress reporter based in Yerevan, tells RFE/RL. "That's why [he said he] invented the story."

Shahbazian sent his bogus story of the rescue to TASS so that it would get international distribution, according to Azroyan.

Another account suggests that a TASS reporter was with Shahbazian in Leninakan and conspired to make up the report.

But Aram Ananian, the current director of Armenpress, tells RFE/RL he knows that Shahbazian was the author.

On December 7, 1988, an earthquake shattered the north of Soviet Armenia. Three decades later, the region is yet to recover from a disaster that killed more than 25,000 people and destroyed tens of thousands of homes.

Another Armenpress journalist at the time, Armen Dulian, concurs that the rescue hoax was Shahbazian's work. He also acknowledges to RFE/RL that he wrote even more of a whopper in the quake's aftermath.

But the fake story by Dulian, who subsequently worked for RFE/RL and remains a popular fixture on Armenian Public Television, appears to have been quickly spotted as a hoax. In it, he wrote that several pregnant women in the earthquake zone had given birth to babies with superhuman abilities like night vision and fur, presumably due to the cold conditions their mothers had been subjected to.

Dulian said he also wrote his "superbaby" tale in hopes of highlighting the poor conditions his compatriots were enduring since the initial tragedy. "I wanted to draw the attention of the world to our misfortune," Dulian told RFE/RL in the run-up to the 30th anniversary of the Armenian earthquake. "That's why I invented the story. I didn't expect that the world could perceive it as a true story. It was a mistake that I never repeated in my journalistic career."

Although Dulian's ridiculous, U.S. tabloid-like story about freakish babies was probably laughed at by most readers, he said some media outlets actually believed it and that a German TV crew called him to come to Armenia to film the unusual babies. He had to tell them the story was a hoax.Shahbazian's equally fictional story of the pickle-eating Hakopian's rescue was seemingly more believable.

Despite countless stories after earthquakes around the world in which survivors exaggerate or mistakenly recount the amount of time they spent under rubble before their rescue, Shahbazian's story seemed plausible -- particularly after Hakopian appeared on Soviet TV talking about his ordeal.

Although Shahbazian seems to have taken the details of his ruse with him to the grave, Hakopian was a real person who seemingly survived the earthquake.

A TV report on the U.S.S.R.'s popular Vremya news program claimed Hakopian was brought to Yerevan from the stricken city of Leninakan (which is today known as Gyumri).

Dulian says Shahbazian had gone to Leninakan and may have met Hakopian there. Whether those two concocted the story together or Shahbazian simply embellished Hakopian's original account of a rescue is unclear.

Some reports -- excluding the fake one -- stated that Hakopian's wife and four children had been killed in the tragedy. A doctor was even on hand for the television report to say that Hakopian's condition was satisfactory.

The other five men were reportedly not brought to Yerevan for treatment -- only Hakopian.It didn't take long for Soviet officials to begin to doubt the authenticity of the January 13, 1989, TASS report about the six miracle survivors.

The next day, The New York Times reported that Soviet media had "cast doubt" on the report of the miraculous January 11 rescue. TASS reported that it could "neither confirm or deny" the account, and Armenian officials told The New York Times that its branch of the Soviet Health Ministry was trying to "verify the facts and find all of" the six purported survivors.

The New York Times expressed hope that its story of the rescue "might yet turn out to be true" and offered a sliver of praise to the openness in the media brought on by Mikhail Gorbachev's rise to power in the Soviet Union.

It noted that Gorbachev had "brought not only a new liveliness but also a new element of uncertainty into [the Soviet media and] what used to be a monolithic propaganda machine, one that was counted on for consistency, if not always truth."

The central Soviet newspaper Izvestia announced it had been unable to find any of the other men cited by Hakopian as having been rescued and had launched an investigation into the "Leninakan miracle."

Hakopian was even said to have been given a psychiatric evaluation and found to be "completely normal." Though a TV report said he acted "exhausted and distracted" during an interview, casting doubt on the accuracy of some of the quotations attributed to him by TASS."

But a day later the charade was seemingly over. The New York Times printed a story titled Soviets Say Armenian Invented Ordeal In Quake, with TASS reporting that Hakopian and his sister seemed to have made up the story about being trapped for 35 days under the rubble.

More recently, in the weeks ahead of the 30th anniversary of the Armenian tragedy, efforts by RFE/RL -- including pleas on a local Gyumri TV station and social media -- to locate Hakopian or any of the other men named in the bogus rescue report were unsuccessful.

Sergei Nazaretian, an adviser to the director of the Armenian National Service for Seismic Protection, tells RFE/RL that the last recorded rescue after the 1988 earthquake was the discovery of a victim 13 days later.

It will likely never be known if Hakopian and Shahbazian knew each other or collaborated in some way on the fake story.

It's also difficult to know whether Shahbazian's fake news story succeeded in getting the world to pay more attention to the horrible predicament the Armenian people were in.

What is certain is that even 30 years later, many of the cities in northern Armenia hit hardest by the earthquake are still struggling. If youre driving when an earthquake strikes, you should pull to the side of the road, advises the U.S. government. If youre indoors, it suggests, stay away from door frames. But what if the earthquake is strong enough to reduce the building youre currently in to a pile of rubble?

32-year-old Mexican engineer Reynaldo Vela might have a solution for you. Hes designed an egg-shaped safety pod that you can hide inside during an earthquake  and you could live inside it for up to a month, he says. Hes been working on the design for more than eight years, Motherboard reports. The procedure is as simple as you might think: once the quake hits, step inside and close the door behind you. But the egg capsules will cost you a pretty penny: a fully decked out Capsula K107 human egg pod goes for $10,000 U.S., while a basic version goes for only $2,400. The pods feature a pouch for human waste, an air purifier, and a vapor condenser for drinking water.

U.S. Velas company has sold more than 110 units so far, according to Motherboard. But theres enough demand to grow a lengthy waitlist for future customers in Mexico. Others have marketed similar products. A U.S. called Survival Capsule sells spherical, reinforced metal balls that can withstand being crushed and which float in case of a tsunami.

Mexico has had a rough history with earthquakes. Officials estimate that the 8.0 magnitude earthquake that hit Mexico City in 1985 killed over 5,000 people, but eyewitnesses believe that number could be much higher, according to The Guardian.

Will Velas egg pods be enough to save lives during Mexicos next earthquake disaster? For now, well have to take his word for it  and hand him a substantial amount of money. Three new maps reveal which parts of the globe are most at risk of earthquakes  and where most people are vulnerable to seismic disaster.

The first map, of global seismic hazard, shows in unprecedented detail which parts of the globe are prone to earthquakes  such as the Ring of Fire around the Pacific Ocean.

The second, of global seismic risk, highlights areas where buildings are likely to be damaged by the ground shaking, such as Guatemala. The third, of global exposure, looks at the number of buildings around the world  emphasizing the danger in highly populated regions such as Indonesia and India.

The charts, released on 5 December, are the culmination of a years-long international effort coordinated by the Global Earthquake Model (GEM), a nonprofit organization in Pavia, Italy, that works with emergency management officials, geological surveys, and disaster-preparedness groups worldwide.

GEM expect to update the maps, which are built on an open-source platform, roughly once a year. 
A man in a red striped tshirt walks over a ruined building in South Palu
A man surveys damage from a magnitude-7.5 earthquake that hit Indonesia's Sulawesi province in October.Credit: Hariandi Hafid/SOPA Images/LightRocket via Getty

Three new maps reveal which parts of the globe are most at risk of earthquakes  and where most people are vulnerable to seismic disaster.

The first map, of global seismic hazard, shows in unprecedented detail which parts of the globe are prone to earthquakes  such as the Ring of Fire around the Pacific Ocean.

The second, of global seismic risk, highlights areas where buildings are likely to be damaged by the ground shaking, such as Guatemala. The third, of global exposure, looks at the number of buildings around the world  emphasizing the danger in highly populated regions such as Indonesia and India.

The charts, released on 5 December, are the culmination of a years-long international effort coordinated by the Global Earthquake Model (GEM), a nonprofit organization in Pavia, Italy, that works with emergency management officials, geological surveys, and disaster-preparedness groups worldwide.

GEM expect to update the maps, which are built on an open-source platform, roughly once a year.


M Pagani. et al./Global Earthquake Model

The seismic-hazard map is the first major global effort of its kind since 1999, says Marco Pagani, a hazard coordinator at GEM who led its development. It incorporates more than 30 national and regional models from groups such as the US Geological Survey and the China Earthquake Administration. For countries or regions without updated models, such as Colombia, GEM worked with local experts to produce them.

The new map reflects recent scientific insights into earthquake risk around subduction zones, where one plate of Earth's crust slides beneath another in places such as Japan and Chile. The analysis identifies more hazards around the Ring of Fire as compared to places like the Himalayas that the 1999 map emphasized, Pagani says.

GEM's? risk and exposure maps explore what the chances of earthquakes mean for human lives. Were not just talking about shaking  were talking about human losses and the collapse of buildings, says Vitor Silva, the risk coordinator at GEM who led the team that produced the risk and exposure maps.

Working with local contacts, Silva's group compiled information such as what material buildings are made of, how many stories high they are, and the chances that they conform to local earthquake-resistant building codes. For places where data was limited or nonexistent, such as South Sudan, the team used satellite images to analyze building types.

?Two-thirds of the world's buildings turn out to be located in just 15 countries, says Silva. Knowing where the vulnerable buildings are could help local officials decide where to allocate resources for beefing up construction, he says.

Future versions of the maps could include factors like the risk of tsunamis  or use machine learning to analyze how exposure changes throughout the day, as people flow into and out of cities for work. A military couple is feeling the shockwaves of the Alaska earthquake all the way at Fort Bragg.

The Harkless family fell in love with Alaska for its vast mountain ranges and picturesque plains.

"The state? We love it. We're big hikers," said Daric Harkless.

Daric and her husband bought a home just outside of Anchorage and got to know Mother Nature pretty well. They also found out how heartless she could be.

"We've experienced a couple of them when we were up there. I was in Wal-Mart one time and it was pretty scary. There were a couple items that fell off the shelves. Just a little quiver," Harkless said.

But last Friday's earthquake was more than a quiver. Aftershocks from that 7 magnitude quake are being felt in the hearts of the young Fort Bragg family.

"The earthquake destroyed our home. They were worried because emergency responders thought a gas tank might cause it to explode," said Harkless.

The Harkless' home is two stories but the quake split it into two halves. The family said their home is condemned but the payments must continue

"The mortgage is still going to come every month and it's two grand in addition to our rent and we still have 25 years left on it," said Harkless

To make matters worse, the family didn't have earthquake insurance. Their situation is similar to many Fayetteville families who sought help from FEMA but were denied since they didn't have flood insurance.

"It's a thing I guess, once it actually hits you, you truly understand the need," Harkless said.

The family has set up a GoFundMe page to help them save or pay for their dream home. Major road repairs take more than just a few days.

Unless you're the Alaska Department of Transportation and Public Facilities. 

A week after a major earthquake rattled Alaska, a magnitude-7.0 tremor that's been followed by more than 3,000 aftershocks, the state's transportation department has become the envy of a nation for the speed of its work  even if its repairs aren't permanent.

Department spokesperson Shannon McCarthy told USA TODAY on Thursday that crews repaired most major road damage within four days  with before and after photos of an off-ramp near Ted Stevens Anchorage International Airport emerging as a social media sensation.

The photos, shared on Facebook by Alaska Tour & Travel, had garnered 1,100 comments and been shared more than 17,000 times as of Thursday night.

"Wow!! Other states could certainly learn from this. Way to go Alaska!!" one person wrote.

"That is unbelievably awesome! Hooray for the Alaskan people! Wish repairs went that fast in Texas," another Facebook user said.

"It would take California years to get this done," another posted.

The DOT's work, though, isn't done. The repairs completed since the Nov. 30 earthquake, in unfavorable winter conditions, are temporary solutions to avoid transit complications, and crews will redo the majority of their work in the summer to ensure long-term sustainability, McCarthy said. It took about 72 hours of around-the-clock work to restore that northbound off-ramp near the airport, McCarthy said. A total of 14 people worked the project: seven laborers, five truck drivers and two project engineers. It was the first ramp that the department began reconstructing, with workers on-site just three hours after the quake.

Crews faced freezing rain, light snow, high winds and temperatures that dropped to the high 20s. Usually, Alaska only does construction from May through September when conditions are more favorable for long-lasting repairs. The biggest challenges, McCarthy said, lay in the asphalt and frozen soil. 

No asphalt plants run during non-peak months because cold temperatures solidify the oil while rain and snow add moisture. So, instead, a department worker called a contractor to start reheating asphalt two hours after the earthquake, McCarthy said.


Because areas of the road sunk and cracked apart, workers had to grind up the damaged asphalt, remove bad material, bring new material and compact the frozen soil. Then they paved and painted the off-ramp. 

It reopened at 1:30 a.m. Tuesday, with the southbound exit for the airport opening an hour or two later. 

In the summer, McCarthy said construction crews would typically need a full two months for a similar project.

Since Fridays earthquake, DOT&PF employees and Alaska contractors have worked tirelessly to re-establish essential transportation links, Gov. Mike Dunleavy said in a statement. Regardless of the challenges, they have committed to finding solutions in record time.

Emergency declarations from the president and the governor, McCarthy said, expedited repairs. Support from the Federal Highway Administration also helped, as well as planning conscious of how Alaska gets more earthquakes than any other state.  

"We're all really pleased that we were all able to come together and anticipate what our challenges were early on during the disaster," McCarthy said. "Within that first hour or two, we were really anticipating what we were going to need in five days." 

The department is continuing repairs to smaller damaged spots, including ruptures that shut down a lane. Throughout the winter, it will also monitor temporary repairs. In the week since a massive 7.0 earthquake struck near Anchorage, Alaska, officials have tallied nearly 3,000 aftershocks and possibly a billion dollars in economic losses, and theyre still counting. 

But despite the scope of the quake, there have been zero reported fatalities associated with the temblor ? a feat owed to both seismic luck and strong building codes adopted in the earthquake-prone state.

The rupture in the fault about seven miles from Anchorage, a city of around 300,000 people, occurred nearly 30 miles below the Earths surface, according to the U.S. Geological Surveys latest assessment. Thats a significant depth, experts say. Though earthquakes with such high magnitudes ? a measure of the amount of energy the rupture gives off ? will be felt over a larger area and for a longer period of time, the intensity of the earthquake waves have a lot of time to diminish when traveling tens of miles to the Earths surface. 

Thats not to say no damage occurred in the Anchorage area. Theres a good chance damage from last weeks quake will total anywhere from $100 million to $1 billion, the USGS says. At least three schools, for instance, announced they will remain closed for the remainder of the school year due to damages.

But it could have been much worse ? and deadlier ? if it werent for steps Alaska has taken in recent decades to raise earthquake safety standards. Sen. Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska) praised the state for its preparedness this week on Twitter, calling the lack of casualties extraordinary. After Alaska was hit with a jaw-dropping 9.2 earthquake in 1964 ? the largest in recorded U.S. history and second largest in the world ? the state adopted the International Building Code, considered the highest seismic standard available, which mandates buildings be designed to resist ground motion and requires beams, columns and other structural connections be reinforced to resist  damage from shaking. 

Building codes mean something, Alaska Gov. Bill Walker (I) told reporters the day the quake hit. 

California, a much more densely populated state with high earthquake risks, is lagging in that department, though lawmakers are pushing for higher standards similar to Alaskas. After a shallow 4.4 magnitude quake caused significant shaking across the San Francisco Bay Area earlier this year, seismologists warned that the region was sitting on a tectonic time bomb. 

But the safety problem goes beyond building codes. Seismologists working on the prototype of a game-changing earthquake warning system lamented to HuffPost after the Bay Area quake that funding for the project was insufficient and insecure despite the U.S. being years behind other countries in the technology. The warning system, which gives anywhere from seconds to minutes before shaking starts, is already in place in other earthquake-prone countries, including Japan, Mexico, Turkey, Romania, China and Italy.

Now U.S. senators from Alaska and California have co-authored legislation that would bolster funding for earthquake preparedness ? including the early warning system ? across the U.S. The House and Senate have passed the legislation, which awaits approval from President Donald Trump. Survivors of the Great Alaska Earthquake piled into the Wilda Marston Theatre Thursday to hear about a mans lifelong quest to reconnect with friends after the 9.2 magnitude quake rocked Alaska.


Dan Kendall was a young boy living in Valdez when the earthquake turned his world upside down. "We left Valdez suddenly after the earthquake, and we didn't see the people we knew again," Kendall said.

Now, hes a focus of the PBS series Well Meet Again: 1964 Earthquake with Ann Curry.

At the showing of the film, Channel 2 spoke with several survivors with haunting memories of their own from the violent earthquake.

Karen Gibson was dying Easter eggs as the first tremors rolled around 5:30 in the evening, March 27, 1964.

Gravity had lost supremacy during the earthquake, Gibson remembered.

Even though Fridays earthquake awakened dormant memories in her mind, Gibson says it didnt even compare in its horror.

The difference between this earthquake last week, Gibson said. In the 64 earthquake, I was convinced I was going to die. This one wasnt that way. Gibson remembers the sound from the 64 quake. It was a thousand trains. It was deafening, she said.

Nancy Amend had just returned from a friends house. She was 14 at the time.

We thought the town was wiped out, she said. But comparing it today, the shaking was just as severe as a nine-point-something, in a 14-year-olds mind.

The big difference in Amends mind was the duration of the tremors. The Great Alaska Earthquake lasted over four minutes. She remembers thinking it would never end.

I thought, How can we live on a shaking earth like this? Amend said. But its been a traumatic experience. Weve carried it with us all these years, and many of us have a PTSD from that.

The Great Alaska Earthquake unleashed a trauma, one unmatched in Alaskas history as far as earthquakes go. That trauma was reawakened by Fridays 7.0 magnitude quake.

But when asked how this most recent event compares to the 64 earthquake, Kendall says he knew after the first two shocks that it paled in comparison.

"In the '64 earthquake, you couldn't stand up. You couldn't hold anything, he said. I wound up on my hands and knees like a lot of other people." Kendall started the morning of Friday, Nov. 30 with his usual cup of coffee, sitting across the table from his wife when the quake hit. She got up and she started holding the cupboards up, and I said dont bother, Kendall said.

Kendall has spent his life reconnecting with friends after his family left Valdez. He hopes the film will provide closure for anyone out there recognizing his story.

"Yeah if they see it, maybe they'll call me up and we'll talk," Kendall said.

The Alaska Earthquake Center says the 64 earthquake was around 1,000 times stronger than Friday's quake.

The municipality says Southcentral is still tallying up extensive damage, as aftershocks continue to disrupt the ground. Several neighboring houses in a Jewel Lake neighborhood have been flagged as unsafe for permanent dwelling after all suffering similar damage in last week's magnitude 7.0 earthquake, and now residents want answers to why all the homes on their street suffered the same fate.


Each of the homes sunk between six and eight inches since the earthquake, and some neighbors also experienced bursting waterlines, structural damage in crawlspaces and warping doors and windows.

There were even reports by residents of so-called "sand volcanoes."

Now the neighbors are joining forces to try and figure out why their area alone took such a hard hit.

"We've started a group together," said Matthew Robinson, one of the affected homeowners. "We are actually having a meeting to get all of the people in our circle on the same page. there's something else going on here and it needs to be figured out."

Another resident impacted by the shake up was Dean Cannon.

"For someone to come in and just say 'you can't be here,' it's a difficult pill to swallow ," Cannon said, though acknowledged the risk to the safety of residents. "I understand why they had to do it." The neighbors attended yesterday's emergency public assistance meeting, but they're still left with questions about their homes, and the safety of their families.

"Our neighbors, at least three of them, have been here for over 25 years," Robinson said. "My concern is, we spend all this money to pick all these houses back up, but it's not going to do us any good if they fall right back down."

For now, those yellow stickers from the city aren't enforceable, but residents say they don't know how or when they'll be able to feel safe in their homes again.

"Every time we get another one of these little quakes, the house sinks lower in the dirt," Robinson said. When a magnitude 7.0 earthquake struck Alaska last week, a highway ramp that leads to Ted Stevens Anchorage International Airport looked destroyed beyond repair.

Four days later, quick-moving construction workers rebuilt the ramp and the road reopened between 1:30 and 3:30 a.m. Tuesday, Shannon McCarthy, a spokeswoman for the Alaska Department of Transportation and Public Facilities said.

The large earthquake struck at 8:29 a.m. last Friday and was followed by a magnitude 5.7 quake. Aftershocks of 4.0 or large were regular occurrences afterward. More than 1,000 aftershocks rattled the region in the days following the quake itself, according to scientists.

The off-ramp that carries traffic from south Anchorage and the Kenai Peninsula to the states largest airport was identified was one site that had a break in essential travel and was among the highest priorities for officials to get fixed. No one was injured when the ramp collapsed.

We basically called the contracting community, and we split up the sites between multiple contractors and our construction staff, McCarthy said. Construction workers were forced to restart their asphalt plants in order to help get the roadway back into shape. The asphalt plants had been shut down for the season in late October.

As soon as the quake happened, as soon as the contractors felt their asphalt plants were safe, they ran over and started up their asphalt plants, McCarthy said.

Work on the off-ramp began at sundown Friday and the asphalt was ready to be laid down soon after.

That's almost unheard of, McCarthy said.

The Glenn Highway, which is the only roadway leading north from Anchorage, was fully reopened Wednesday. Crews had to fix all six lanes because of massive sinkholes near Mirror Lake. Tsunami waves have been observed after a 7.6 magnitude earthquake shook the south Pacific in the early hours Wednesday.

According to the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center (PTWC) in Hawaii, waves one to three meters (3 - 10 feet) above the tide level could strike the coasts of New Caledonia and Vanuatu. Smaller waves up to one meter may reach Fiji and ripples of no more than a foot could travel all the way to South and Central America, Hawaii, China, Japan and just about any nation with Pacific coastline in the southern hemisphere.

Waves have been observed already at buoys off New Caledonia and Vanuatu. Evacuations have been ordered for vulnerable areas of New Caledonia, but the Vanuatu Meteorology and  Geo-Hazards Department posted the following on its website:


"Based on all available and historical data, a destructive Tsunami is not expected within Vanuatu. This will be the only statement for this event unless additional data are received." "A tsunami is a series of waves and the time between waves can be five minutes to one hour," reads the PTWC alert.

The waves were triggered by a shallow earthquake centered southeast of the Loyalty Islands, which are part of New Caledonia. Several aftershocks of at least 5.0 magnitude have been recorded since the initial earthquake just after 4 a.m. UTC. The sports community across Alaska continues to respond to damage from last Fridays earthquake.

UAA announcing Wednesday that its Alaska Airlines Center had broken glass in several trophy cases, plus flooding on the main floor of the arena.

That flooding was cleaned up shortly after the quake, leaving some standing water but with no games this weekend, it should have plenty of time to dry.

The gymnastics studio and auxiliary gym at the Alaska Airlines Center had sheet rock damage, but it's being repaired.

UAA Gymnastics canceled its Green and Gold Meet set for December 8th.

The Wells Fargo Sports complex only saw minor damage with a busted pipe spewing water near the Seawolves practice rink. The pool did not have any damage.

Before leaving for Minnesota, the hockey team practiced at the Sullivan Arena on Tuesday, the basketball team practiced at Grace Christian School, and the gymnastics team has been practicing at the Anchorage Gymnastics Association. The track and field teams continue to practice at The Dome. A strong earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 6.2 has hit east of the Loyalty Islands near New Caledonia.

The United States Geological Survey says the quake hit at a depth of 26 kilometres east-southeast of Tadine in the Loyalty Islands.

A powerful 7.6 quake hit near New Caledonia earlier this week. The series of earthquakes that rattled Anchorage last Friday triggered landslides and soil liquefaction, in which the ground tears open, causing cracks and fissures. More than 50 highways and roads were damaged, but there are no reports of collapsed buildings, deaths or serious injuries. In March 1964, the most powerful earthquake on record in the United States hit Alaska. The 8.3 to 9.2 magnitude earthquake was so strong that no seismometer in the affected area recorded it correctly. It lasted for five minutes and triggered widespread destruction, 2,000 landslides, a 98 ft high tsunami and killed 139 people. The Great Alaskan Earthquake (also known as the Good Friday Earthquake) led to stricter building codes to help buildings withstand future quakes. Today, the state of Alaska applies the International Building Code, considered the best available standard for seismic safety. It requires buildings to be designed to resist possible ground motion determined by location and earthquake histories. Structural elements, like beams and columns, supporting the building are reinforced to resist shaking. Walls are built with reinforced concrete and buildings with light roofs will oscillate less than buildings with heavy roofs. Pipes and wires are not encased in concrete and are free to move during an earthquake, making them less prone to break during shaking.

Bridges are equipped with 'viscous dampers' to help absorb the shock from earthquakes and help them move without causing damage. Local authorities are also planning to conduct bridge inspections for safety reasons. Reinforced oil pipelines with sections designed to deform instead of rupturing when bent can pass over active fault zones. An oil pipeline located just 120 miles from the epicenter of Friday's magnitude 7.0 earthquake was shut down for some hours, as maintenance crews were sent to check it out, but no damage was reported. A moderate earthquake with a magnitude of 4.2 struck the Mojave Desert area, north of Barstow, on Wednesday.

According to the U.S. Geological Survey, the quake struck around 1:40 p.m. around 57 miles north of Barstow and 55 miles northwest of Ridgecrest in Kern County. The world's largest earthquake to this date occurred on May 22, 1960 near Valdivia, in southern Chile. The tremor was assigned a magnitude of 9.5 by the United States Geological Survey (USGS) and is referred to as the "Great Chilean Earthquake" and the "1960 Valdivia Earthquake."

And according to the Seismology Research Centre a magnitude 8.8 earthquake could literally cause the ground to crack and would leave few buildings standing.

Mr Hoogerbeets reached his conclusion using his Solar System Geometry Index (SSGI) which is the computation of a dataset for a specific time-frame of values given to specific geometric positions of the planets, the Moon and the Sun.

He said: After three years of observations, it became clear that some planetary geometry in the Solar System clearly tends to cause a seismic increase, while other geometry does not. But the USGS says Mr Hoogerbeets claims are nothing but falsehood, as it is impossible to predict an earthquake.

John Bellini, a geophysicist at the US Geological Survey (USGS) has said: We can't predict or forecast earthquakes.

"Sometimes before a large earthquake you'll have a foreshock or two, but we don't know they're foreshocks until the big one happens.

According to USGS an earthquake prediction must define three elements; the date and time, the location and the magnitude. So although some people say they can predict earthquakes, here are the reasons, which according to USGS, prove why their statements are false. They are not based on scientific evidence, and earthquakes are part of a scientific process. For example, earthquakes have nothing to do with clouds, bodily aches and pains, or slugs.
They do not define all 3 of the elements required for a prediction. Their predictions are so general that there will always be an earthquake that fits; such as, (a) There will be a M4 earthquake somewhere in the US in the next 30 days. (b) There will be a M2 earthquake on the west coast of the US today. A 5.0-magnitude earthquake rocked Lebak District in Banten on Friday at 6:43 a.m., the fifth tremor of above 4-magnitude in the area this year.

The earthquake was located around 83 kilometers southwest of Lebak at a depth of 19 km, according to the Lebak Disaster Mitigation Agency (BPBD).

So far, we haven't received any reports of casualties or damage to infrastructure caused by the earthquake," Lebak BPBD Madias said as quoted by Antara news agency, adding that the earthquake was relatively small.

The earthquake also did not panic people living nearby on the southern coast of Lebak, which is close to the epicenter. The current situation in the southern coastal area, including Wanasalam, Pangarangan, Cihara and Bayah remains normal, with people going about their activities as usual.

Weve asked people to remain calm and not panic, Madias said. However, the agency also asked the residents to stay alert in a bid to minimize casualties. There will also be a 24-hour alert to anticipate another disaster.

It was the fifth earthquake to hit the district this year. The largest one was 6.4-magnitude and occurred on Jan. 23, causing panic among people in Jakarta as some occupants of high rise buildings could feel the tremor.

In March, the district was hit by another earthquake, this time of 5.2-magnitude, which was hardly felt. On July 7, another earthquake rocked Lebak, measuring only 4.4 but damaging three houses in Sukabumi, West Java. In October, the district was, again, hit by a 5.2-magnitude earthquake. (foy). Nurul Istikharah, better known as Lulu, is too scared to go back to Palu, the city where she experienced 36 hours of horror following a powerful earthquake.

Now living in her ancestral home town in another province, the 16-year-old is determined to move on with her life, even though she lost her legs to the disaster.

Lulus home in the Balaroa area of Palu was among the areas decimated by soil liquefaction, a phenomenon unfamiliar to many Indonesians.

That evening, on Sept. 28, Lulu, a 10th-grader at State Islamic High School 1, heard the call to prayer from the mosque and went to wash herself to prepare for the dusk prayer. With her at home were her mother, Risni, 45, and her 14-year-old sister Nurul Istikamah, or Isti. Her father, Muhammad Yusuf, 43, was out in the backyard tending to their chicken. Then, the earthquake struck.

The 7.4-magnitude tremor threw their bodies around the house, and a cabinet collapsed onto Risni. But the three of them managed to escape from the house.

They saw buildings falling down and the earth split. The soil was moving, mud was flowing out of the ground, and some water from burst water pipes was flooding their way.

Later, they found themselves buried after concrete debris fell onto them. Unable to move, they could not help each other. Her mother was trapped next to Lulu, while her sister was trapped near her legs.

Her father Yusuf was separated from them and had to climb over debris and wade through the mud to find his family. When he got to them, Lulu was the only one alive. Lulu said she had witnessed her mother and sister die before her eyes.

Yusuf was determined to save Lulu but could not pull her out alone. So he found a hose and gave it to his daughter to breathe. Lulu stayed alive in that state for almost 24 hours, until the search and rescue team reached her on Saturday afternoon. They found her hugging her dead mother. The National Search and Rescue Agency (Basarnas) personnel did not have the right equipment to safely pull Lulu out. Pulling with force entailed the risk of breaking Lulus legs.

So her father made a difficult decision.

Pull her, its ok if her legs break, as long as she is alive. Do it, Ill take the responsibility, Yusuf told the Basarnas personnel.

The rescue took hours. The team had to pump out water from the hole where Lulu was stuck in. In the early hours of Sunday, they managed to free Lulu. The team took her to Undata Hospital in Palu. The doctors could not save Lulus legs, so they asked for Yusufs permission to amputate them. Yusuf saw no other option but to sign the form of consent.

But her uncle insisted they get a second opinion and convinced Yusuf to take Lulu to the family's hometown in Pasangkayu regency of West Sulawesi. Upon arriving there, they found the regency did not have a hospital, only a community health center (Puskesmas). The doctor there said the same thing: Lulus legs had to be amputated, and it had to be done fast as the infection was spreading.

So the family took her to Makassar in South Sulawesi, the most developed city in Sulawesi. This time, the decision was quick. The legs, from the knees down, must go. Last Friday, after being treated for a month at Wahidin Sudirohusodo Hospital in Makassar, Lulu was allowed to go home. But Lulu no longer calls Palu home.

I dont want to go to school in Palu anymore. Im scared, she told The Jakarta Post.
So they stayed at a relatives house in Makassar. Yusuf, who had lost his job because of the earthquake and was staying in Makassar with his daughter, did not have the money for them to leave. After some word of mouth via WhatsApp groups, however, several donors chipped in to finance their return to their ancestral home of Pasangkayu, from where they had moved to Palu nine years earlier.

Now in Pasangkayu, Lulu is eager to go back to school and says she would like to have artificial legs.

Charles Ham from the HOPE Worldwide Indonesia foundation said he would see to it. We will help Nurul and we will bring her to Yogyakarta to measure the artificial legs, he said.

The Palu earthquake, which triggered a tsunami and soil liquefaction, killed at least 2,086 people in Palu and the regencies of Donggala and Sigi. (evi). DeSoto Parish Sheriff Jayson Richardson confirms Stonewall, LA was shaken by an earthquake early Tuesday morning.
The United States Geological Service has also confirmed that a 2.4 magnitude earthquake happened about 5.5 miles Northeast of Stonewall at 1:14 a.m. on Dec. 4. The 2.4 magnitude earthquake was recorded near Linwood Avenue just north of Barron Road. The sound and vibrations have been reported almost five miles from the center of the quake, according to Sheriff Jayson Richard. Drivers going south from Anchorage are being advised to be careful, as rock slides are still going on near the Seward Highway.

Officers patrolling the Seward Highway are advising travelers to use caution between mile 104-110 on the Seward Highway, according to a statement issued by APD.

Officials said that "rocks continue to slide and the wind in the area is making it hard to see."

This, after the 7.0 magnitude earthquake caused entire sections of the Seward Highway to get shut down due to massive rock slides, one of which almost killed a truck driver. Even as many Mat-Su students returned to class Thursday, students at three schools learned they cant go back until late next week.

Thats due to damage from the magnitude 7.0 earthquake that damaged parts of buildings, toppled computers and dislodged ceiling tiles.

Schools took the brunt of the earthquake, which had an epicenter on Point MacKenzie in the borough. More than 110 cases of damage reported so far include 50 reports of structural damage to schools, according to emergency managers here. Twenty-one are for damaged homes. The rest are borough and state roads.

Colony High School, Colony Middle School and Finger Lake Elementary will reopen to students Friday, Dec. 14, pending final inspections, according to an update the Matanuska-Susitna Borough School District posted Thursday.

Thats two weeks after the earthquake closed schools Nov. 30. District officials say the delays getting back into classrooms wont push the school year later, however. The state waived any school closure days, district spokeswoman Jillian Morrissey said Thursday. The quake took different tolls at different schools.

At Colony High, the gym sustained structural damage, the update says. The middle school and elementary school experienced significant ceiling tile and grid damage.

Some Mat-Su schools, mostly in the less-damaged parts of the upper Susitna Valley, reopened Monday. Most of the rest opened Thursday.

But the earthquake inflicted so much damage on the cinder blocks that make up the walls at Houston Middle School that the school cant reopen this year and may not reopen next school year either, officials have said. Instead, students will attend classes at Houston High School.

Houston High will reopen to high school students Wednesday, according to the district update. Houston middle-schoolers will report to class at the high school on Thursday, Dec. 13. Wasilla High School, Wasilla Middle School, Joe Redington Sr. Junior/Senior High School, Denaina Elementary School, Knik Elementary, Big Lake Elementary and Goose Bay Elementary will open for students Tuesday.

Mat-Su Central Schools Wasilla office will open to students Tuesday. But the schools smaller Palmer office is closed until further inspection, the district says. Norfolk Island in Australia was struck by a magnitude 6 earthquake, making it the second quake to hit the South Pacific in 24 hours. Yesterday New Caledonia was struck by a huge magnitude 7.6 earthquake, but no damage was caused. Both quakes struck along the Ring of Fire, where around 90 percent of the worlds earthquakes occur. Todays earthquake struck at a depth of 10km (six miles) and around 681km (423 miles) northeast of Norfolk Island.

There has been no tsunami alert issued, and no reports of damage or injuries.

Norfolk Island lies 1,412 km east of the Australian mainland and is home to around 1,750 people.

Australia and its surrounding islands experience earthquakes due to the Indo-Australian plate pushing to the north and colliding with the Eurasian, Philippine and Pacific tectonic plates. In the space of 24 hours, there have been two major earthquakes to hit the South Pacific, which is an area that lies on the Ring of Fire.

The Ring of Fire is home to around 90 percent of the worlds earthquakes, and 81 percent of the largest earthquakes in the world.

It lies in a large 25,000-mile horseshoe shape and is also known as the circum-Pacific belt. Professor Bill McGuire, Emeritus Professor of Earth Sciences at University College London explained the explosive nature of the Ring of Fire.

He said: The Ring of Fire is a girdle of volcanoes and earthquake zones that circles the Pacific Ocean, and which marks the join between some of the planet's most active tectonic plates.

Almost all the of the world's most explosive and dangerous volcanoes are located here, along with the some of the longest and most deadly earthquake faults.

Many of the biggest faults in the Ring of Fire are submarine so that their rupture can trigger catastrophic tsunamis, such as those that struck Indonesia and the Indian Ocean in 2004 and Japan in 2011. Whilst these two recent earthquakes have caused no damage and no injuries, often earthquakes magnitude 6 or higher can have catastrophic effects.

This year Indonesia has seen the worst effects of major earthquakes, with two shaking the Southeast Asian nation in the space of just over a month.

On August 5, a magnitude 6.9 earthquake shook the island of Lombok, killing more than 500 people.

Then on September 28, a huge magnitude 7.5 quake hit the island of Sulawesi.

The shallow depth of the Sulawesi earthquake had devastating consequences, killing more than 2,200 people. A MAGNITUDE 6 earthquake has shaken Australias Norfolk Island, the United States Geological Survey (USGS) has said - the second to rock the South Pacific Ocean over the past 24 hours. This latest quake hit at a depth of 10km (six miles) about 681km (423 miles) northeast of Norfolk Island. There was no immediate tsunami warning after and no reports of damage or casualties. The small island, which is home to around 1.750 people, lies 1,412 kilometres east of the Australian mainland. Only yesterday, a tsunami warning was issued after a 7.6-magnitude earthquake struck near the French territory of New Caledonia.

The shallow quake, which had a depth of six miles, struck southeast of the Loyalty Islands, 

Two aftershocks were later recorded at 5.9 magnitude and 5.7 magnitude north of the island.

A tsunami alert was later issued, but officials expected to see fluctuations to affected coastal areas. 

There were no reports of injuries or damage.

Both islands are in Pacifics Ring of Fire where many earthquakes occur.

The Ring of Fire is a major area in the basin of the Pacific Ocean where several earthquakes and volcanic eruptions occur.

It is a large horseshoe shape and is associated with a nearly continuous series of plate movements.

Around 90 percent of the worlds earthquakes and 81 percent of the worlds largest earthquakes occur along the Ring of Fire. An earthquake that struck Wednesday near New Caledonia in the South Pacific is the second one within a week with a magnitude near 7.0. KIRO 7 went to the Pacific Northwest Seismic Network to ask if there is a link.

It's not particularly a cluster or any special event that took place, the fact that they came close together in time is more or less random chance, said Harold Tobin, the director of PNSN. Last Friday, a magnitude 7.0 earthquake rocked Alaska causing significant damage around Anchorage. On Wednesday, the earthquake near the South Pacific Island of New Caledonia measured 7.5.

They are both on the so-called Ring of Fire -- a region spanning the Pacific known for seismic and volcanic activity. The Alaska quake also caused tremors on the other side of the world.

There's no link between the two earthquakes -- the stress of one transmitting to the other, Tobin said.

Tobin said the New Caledonia quake has already sent waves that have impacted the network's seismic meters, but nothing that people would notice and nothing that could cause a major quake.

Scientists have always watched seismic and volcanic activity in other parts of the world.

In June, KIRO 7 told you how scientists believed an eruption in Guatemala was very similar to what would happen at Mount Rainier some day, spewing a volcanic lahar forcing evacuations.

Do these latest quakes of the last few days look like the proverbial "Big One" many expect to rock the Cascadia region?

We would expect a really different type of earthquake from the seismologists point of view and also from what people would feel, Tobin said. When we talk about the big one we're talking about a magnitude 8 plus to 9 scale earthquake that's just a completely different beast. At 8:29 a.m. on Friday, Nov. 30, Jessica Connaher of Eagle River was in a bad way. A magnitude 7 earthquake had hit a few miles away, she had no means of transportation and she couldnt get in touch with her son Colin, a sophomore at Eagle River High School.

It took me 45 minutes after the earthquake to get from my house in Parkview Terrace to ERHS, because my car was trapped in my garage, Connaher wrote. A friend was driving by and helped me finish getting stuff out of the way so I could leave. I wasnt able to get ahold of my son once in that time, and was really worried. I could hear the fire alarms at the school going off from my house.

Connaher was one of thousands of parents across the greater Anchorage area whose thoughts once they were out of immediate danger turned to their children, most of whom were already in classes at schools around the city. Though some students were able to contact their families almost immediately and put their minds at ease, many were unreachable, and parents feared the worst. Calls canceling school went out quickly, and the roads filled with parents rushing from home or work to collect their children. Drives that ordinarily took a few minutes became hourlong commutes.

Fortunately, parents would soon find their children were in good hands.

Connaher pulled up at Eagle River High as students huddled together outside, supervised by their teachers. Her son, unable to contact her, had made arrangements to go home with a friend and keep trying to call her from there. He was just getting into their car further up in line when I arrived and had his name called, Connaher wrote. And for the first time ever, she was happy to see her son improperly dressed for the near-freezing temperatures. My son was in a T-shirt and visibly shivering when he got in my car, and I was thrilled to see it. He always takes his hoodie off and stuffs it in his backpack because he says his second-hour class is so warm. This told me the teacher focused on getting the students out as quickly and efficiently as possible when they were evacuated from the school, and did not let them stop for anything. Colin was uninjured, Connaher wrote, except for a bump on the head when they were diving under their desks.

Stories like Connahers played out that morning throughout the Anchorage School District. As videos showed, teachers, students and support staff did exactly what they were supposed to during the earthquake. Teachers, though affected by the earthquake themselves, projected calm and gave clear instructions to students, keeping them under desks until well after shaking stopped and shepherding them out of the building quickly when fire alarms started to blare. When it was safe to do so, they let students contact their families and let them know what was going on. In some instances, they even used the quake as a teachable moment, talking to students about the processes behind earthquakes and how they affect Alaska.

Connahers reaction to the situation, like that of many other parents, was gratitude. An email arrived a few hours later from school officials detailing what had happened in the quakes immediate aftermath and the procedure for keeping students safe. Im just really appreciative that ERHS and ASD at large have such competent and thoughtful staff," Connaher wrote. Its possible I grabbed my son and cried all over him again, although Im pretty sure hell insist now that it didnt happen.

Systems like ASD are complex, filled with thousands of policies, procedures and people. But in moments of crisis, its what people do on an individual, person-to-person scale that matters most. And when the earthquake came, the people in classrooms across the city  teachers, staff and students alike  did just what they were supposed to. They remembered their training, they took it seriously and they kept each other safe. As parents, as friends and as community members, they did us proud. Newly released documents from a Seattle Public Utilities (SPU) study say a catastrophic earthquake would devastate Seattles water system partly by knocking out reservoirs, pump stations, elevated tanks and standpipes in various neighborhoods.

As many as four reservoirs, eight pump stations, two elevated tanks and three standpipes would be rendered nonfunctional, according to a section of the study SPU previously had kept under wraps.


Seismic upgrades to the at-risk facilities are among $850 million in projects recommended by the SPU study through 2075.

The determination that SPUs Eastside, Magnolia, Riverton Heights and View Ridge reservoirs would be knocked out by a magnitude 7 Seattle Fault earthquake was not included in a 13-page summary that until Friday was the only section of the study released to the public.

Nor was the determination that the Riverton Heights, View Ridge and Volunteer reservoirs would be rendered nonfunctional by a magnitude 9 Cascadia Subduction Zone quake included in that section.

The 722-page study cost SPU $900,000 and took more than three years to complete. But the utility initially kept the entire study other than the summary private, including the table of contents, saying some sections contained information about vulnerable points in the water system and citing a U.S. Department of Homeland Security Protected Critical Infrastructure Information designation.

The utility had sought the designation to ensure the study would be not subject to public disclosure, according to an email to Homeland Security from SPUs water-system seismic program manager.

That approach raised concerns, with former Washington Emergency Management director Jim Mullen calling the secrecy unnecessary. Other utilities, including the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power and Oaklands East Bay Municipal Utility District, had taken a more transparent approach with earthquake studies, making most information public and only withholding sensitive sections.

SPU now has posted six of the studys eight sections online, along with references and appendices, citing the Homeland Security designation in continuing to withhold two sections on vulnerabilities at individual facilities.

The utility values transparency and didnt intend to be secretive, water-planning director Alex Chen said in an email Friday.

We sought protection of security sensitive information that terrorists could use to do maximum harm, Chen said.

After questions from The Seattle Times, SPU went back to Homeland Security and asked for clearance to release most of the study.

Besides naming reservoirs and pump stations that would be knocked out, a newly released documents include a map showing where the water system would have more and less pressure immediately after such a quake.

For example, the map shows that many system nodes on Capitol Hill and in the Central District would have zero pressure, while many nodes in South Lake Union, Sodo and Georgetown would at that point retain pressure, with 60 to 100 pounds per square inch.

Chen described the map as a conservative representation (assuming transportation disruptions for SPU staff, for instance) and said actual pressure loss across neighborhoods would depend partly on the particular nature and location of an earthquake.

In general, neighborhoods with higher elevations would likely to lose pressure first, because neighborhoods with lower elevations tend to be served by larger reservoirs that would take longer to drain out.

Water leaks from high points to low points, Chen said.

The entire city would lose all water pressure within 24 hours, with water draining out of breaks and leaks, and SPU would need at least two months to entirely restore service, according to the study.

The distribution pipes that carry water within the city would see 1,400 to 2,000 breaks, according to another newly released section of the study. Repair crews would be expected to work 12-hour shifts, completing one repair per shift. An estimated 15 crews now could be put to work within three days and 30 crews within a week.

In making repairs, the utility would prioritize hospitals first, homes second and economic zones third, according to the study.

Repairing the transmission pipes that bring water from SPUs mountain reservoirs would take much longer. Leak repairs would take three to seven days, and break repairs five to 10 days.

Transmission-pipe leaks and breaks under rivers could take six months to a year to fix. SPU probably would not use crews from other areas to help repair the transmission pipes because those crews might not have experience dealing with such large pipes. Reflecting its 102-year commitment to Alaska communities and residents, Wells Fargo & Company (NYSE: WFC) today announced a donation of $250,000 to aid in the recovery and relief efforts resulting from the devastating earthquake and the more than 2,000 aftershocks that have impacted the state.

All of us at Wells Fargo are incredibly thankful for the first responders, government agencies, and nonprofit organizations like the Red Cross and Salvation Army that are working hard to help Alaskans recover and rebuild following the earthquake. We are also very grateful that no Alaskans perished during the earthquake, said Greg Deal, Wells Fargo Alaska region bank president. It is amazing to witness the resolve and compassion of Alaskans to help our neighbors in need. As a bank committed to the long-term well-being of Alaskans, Wells Fargo is honored to support the relief and recovery efforts in the days, weeks and months to come.

The donation will be distributed to multiple organizations in Alaska that are positioned to help with recovery:

Alaska Community Foundation (community disaster fund) - $185,000 to address long-term recovery American Red Cross of Alaska* - $30,000 for immediate needs The Salvation Army Alaska Division - $30,000 for immediate needs Foraker Group - $5,000 to create needs portal for Alaska Community Foundation
We are thrilled Wells Fargo has stepped up to help seed this important fund, said Nina Kemppel, Alaska Community Foundation president and CEO. The Alaska Disaster Recovery Fund is supported by a coalition of funders, and nonprofit service providers. This generous donation allows the coalition to provide immediate emergency response and maintain long-term assistance to communities and nonprofits damaged by the earthquake.

Alaskans can visit Alaskacf.org to donate or learn more about the Alaska Disaster Recovery Fund.

Customers who are experiencing hardship due to the earthquake can contact Wells Fargo Customer Support at the number on their credit card, debit card or statement to discuss their options. Affected customers can also contact their banker by visiting their nearest Wells Fargo branch.

All Wells Fargo branches in Alaska have reopened with the exception of the Eagle River branch, which sustained significant structural damage. Customers in Eagle River will be notified when the branch is expected to reopen. The nearest Wells Fargo branches are in East Anchorage, approximately 12 miles away. The Frontier branch is located at 7731 East Northern Lights Blvd., and the full-service Russian Jack branch is located at 5740 DeBarr Road.

Wells Fargo and its 700 Alaska team members serve customers from 44 branches and operate 117 ATMs across the state. In 2017, Wells Fargo invested $1.3 million in hundreds of Alaska nonprofits and schools and its Alaska team members logged 13,000 volunteer hours. Some of the most fascinating images to come out of the Alaska earthquake are the photos that show what geologists refer to as slope failure, in which portions of formerly solid hills caved in, tore or let loose and succumbed to gravity. And if there happened to be a road or other structure on top of the slope that failed, the result is dramatic.

Slopes can fail without earthquakes, as the result of torrential rain or weathering. But the shaking caused by a quake  particularly a large one like what occurred near Anchorage on Friday  can either speed up the process or create entirely new failures that wouldnt have otherwise happened.

Several slope failures were documented in the Anchorage area in the hours after the earthquake Friday, the most interesting (and photogenic) of which was on Vine Road southwest of Wasilla. The photographer, Marc Lester, captured the image from a charter plane as he surveyed damage for the Anchorage Daily News. The roadway looked like pieces of a puzzle, Lester wrote in a piece about how he got the photo. The light snow cover helped the cracks in the Earth stand out and tell the story. Its as if someone came along with a giant wrecking ball and dropped it on Vine Road, which crumpled like a smacked egg.

Geologists seemed surprised at how many slope failures occurred as a result of the 7.0-magnitude quake. The epicenter was deep, at 27 miles below the surface  a key reason the damage in Anchorage was relatively light. Such an earthquake would be expected to generate shaking over a large area, Dave Petley wrote on the American Geophysical Union blog, but probably with reasonably modest peak ground accelerations. Translation: Fridays earthquake would certainly be felt, but the surface of Earth wouldnt be moving dramatically enough to produce widespread landslides.

Photos from Alaska show a lot of lateral spread, in which the ground tears open, causing cracks and fissures. Whatever is on top of the ground at the place it tears in half is also subsequently torn in half, like highways or buildings. The buildings surrounding the perimeter of the spread are also at risk of damage because of the force of the ground spreading out away from the tear. Theres also documentation of block spreading, in which a portion of ground breaks off a hill and slides away mostly intact. Survivors of the 2015 quake that killed almost 9,000 people around Kathmandu now face another challenge they didnt expect
Cities is supported by
Rockefeller FoundationAbout this content
Stephen Starr in Patan
Wed 5 Dec 2018 02.30 EST Last modified on Wed 5 Dec 2018 02.31 EST

Shares
383
 Bhaktapur Durbar Square  a week after the 2015 earthquake in Nepal
 Damage left by the earthquake in the ancient city of Bhaktapur. Despite government aid, many have had to take out loans to rebuild their homes. Photograph: Guillaume Payen/LightRocket via Getty Images
Ratna Awale counts herself lucky. She and her husband, Prem, and their two sons survived the devastating 7.8-magnitude earthquake in Nepal on 25 April 2015 that killed almost 9,000 people.

But her narrow four-storey home in Patan, a sprawling, historical city south of Kathmandu, was badly damaged. There were big cracks from the back of the house to the front wall, and half the ground floor collapsed, she says. The damage across the country cost Nepal an estimated $10bn (7.8bn), cutting its already meagre economic output in half. The government subsequently offered hundreds of thousands of homeowners $3,000 (2,300) each to rebuild their homes.

Unfortunately, that only covered only 30-50% of the cost of rebuilding a typical family dwelling, leaving many Nepalese with a new problem: paying for loans. I took a bank loan for 1 million rupees [about 7,000], says Awale. Were paying 14%. We are caught between paying the loan and feeding ourselves. Either we eat or we pay the loan.

In Nepals worst-affected districts, 75% of the people who rebuilt their homes relied on loans to do so. Some borrowed from banks; others from informal lenders  neighbours, family members or local businesses  that have been charging up to 43% interest. The government ordered commercial banks to offer loans at 2%. Many balked, and demanded that borrowers repay the loans within impossibly tight time frames. The scheme was discontinued last month by the National Reconstruction Authority (NRA) after just 1,300 applicants received loans; across the board, the Housing Recovery and Reconstruction Platform Nepal (HRRP) estimates, the average homeowner is paying 23% interest.

The problem doesnt stop with individual homeowners. Durbar Square in Kathmandu is a stunning medley of Hindu and Buddhist temples, and a major draw for tourists. Many buildings, including the 18th-century Nautale Durbar palace, were badly damaged or destroyed.

With the government heavily indebted, restoration in many cases is being provided for free by the Chinese and other countries. Though the Nepalese government has welcomed Chinas help, Beijings influence over its small neighbour has risen dramatically. Some wonder whether it could lead to a so-called debt trap, as has happened in Sri Lanka, where the government has leased a key port to a Chinese company after struggling to repay it for building it. The challenges facing the authorities are enormous. Nepal is a mountainous country subject to chronic political upheaval, and only recently emerged from civil war. Repairing the damage from the earthquake is a monumental task and the $3,000 grants were never designed to fully cover the cost of rebuilding.

There are more than 820,000 houses eligible  the scale is massive, says Siobhan Kennedy of HRRP. Its bigger than Pakistan in 2005 and Haiti in 2010 in terms of the number of houses that need to be rebuilt. In terms of scale, this is huge.

The NRA has surveyed almost a million homes across the country  a major effort in itself  and says 70% of eligible grant beneficiaries are rebuilding. The central bank has just launched a new initiative allowing grantees to pay back their loans over a five-year period. But just getting the money to those who need it can be difficult. The biggest problem for us is that many people dont officially own their own property, says Rakesh Maharjan, an IT officer at the Earthquake Housing Reconstruction Project in Patan, which oversees the distribution of grants in the area. They dont have title deeds.


Rubbish playgrounds: can upcycling help Kathmandu defeat trash?
 Read more
He says that in Lalitpur, the municipality that incorporates Patan, fewer than one-fifth of homeowners who applied for the government grant have received all three tranches.

Authorities introduced deadlines that applicants had to meet to receive the payout. But that has led to unforeseen consequences: many homeowners are using the proceeds to hastily construct small, one-room buildings that are clearly unsuitable for families.

For Santosh Maharjan, a 25-year-old student whose family began rebuilding their house in Patan last April, the biggest problem remains getting access to money.

Two families live in our home  mine and my uncles, he says. We still need 2 million rupees [around 14,000] to finish the building. My father had to sell his land to help pay for this, and its still not enough. he city of Spitak was levelled in just 30 seconds as a powerful 7.0 magnitude earthquake unleashed massive destruction across northeast Armenia 30 years ago. The disaster killed at least 25,000 people.
Armenia, a part of the Soviet Union at the time, was hit by a catastrophic quake on December 7, 1988. The tremors struck at 11:41am local time, and the buildings began to collapse almost instantly.

Spitak, which was at the epicenter of the earthquake, was almost entirely levelled in just 30 seconds. It was home to 18,500 residents. The violent tremors severely damaged 21 cities and 324 villages. Among them is Armenias second-largest city, Leninakan (presently called Gyumri), which, too, got partially demolished by the disaster. No matter how small or tall, the buildings everywhere folded like a house of cards. There was a loud bang. Moments later we heard several powerful quakes, Mariam Karapetyan, who was a daycare center worker during the disaster, recalled. We couldnt see the sky, and felt that everything was covered in smoke, said Agram Stepanyan. He was 15 at the time, and had to flee for his life.

Our school turned into chaos. Everyone ran Two or three people jumped from the second floor windows. At least 25,000 people died that day, and around 20,000 more were injured.

Rescuers from all over the Soviet Union came to help clearing the rubble and evacuating the bodies. Several foreign teams also joined in. One of the rescuers, Andrey Dyachenko recalled how people started to bury the dead in Spitak.

You could bury three cities with that amount of coffins. Thats how I felt, he said. The Alaska Department of Transportation updated its list of road damage and access with most roads open, though some have cracks and damaged guard rails.

In Anchorage, the Eagle River Bridge will have a southbound lane closed today beginning at 4:00 p.m. The Briggs Bridge is also being paved late into this evening. The DOT says all work is done on the Seward Highway, and marking and shoulder work is left on C Street, which should be finished by tomorrow.

In the Valley, the Glenn Highway still has some damage that's being worked on. One lane is closed at Moose Creek and again just beyond it at mile post 58.7. The Glenn Parks Interchange is also getting some work.

Vine Road (between Shady Grove Lane and Country Wood Drive) is currently closed. Its traveling surface is being restored. Seamus and Charlie knew just what to do when the big quake hit.

Run.

When the shaking started in their Eagle River Valley neighborhood, the shaggy-haired 12-year-old and his teenage buddy bolted in the direction of Walmart and didnt look back.

Things could have ended badly for the runaways that day  if it werent for the actions of a sharp-eyed cop, a determined mom and a kindly neighbor with a Lion King sleeping bag.

I was fearful I would never see them again, said Carrie Drury, the grateful Eagle River woman whose wayward horses were corralled Friday near Homestead Elementary School after they broke through an electric fence and ran nearly five miles down Eagle River Road.

Seamus is a black Friesian-Morgan cross, and Charlie is a brown Appendix Quarter Horse. Theyre fast. Theyve been living in their new home for only about a month, and when the shaker hit, the electric fence around their pasture was no match for their terror. They have too many survival instincts not to bolt, Drury said.

Drury was inside the house with her daughter when the earthquake struck at 8:29 a.m. Friday. She immediately went to check on the horses, who she knew would be in a panic. All she could find were tracks in the snow.

It was hard to keep it together, she said.

But she did keep it together, gathering up her daughter and a couple of neighbor kids and heading in the direction of the tracks.

We said some prayers along the way, she said. They tracked the horses for a half-hour before turning back toward home. Drury said her 9-year-old daughter, Teagan, helped keep her calm as she worried about the horses running into traffic or turning toward the icy Eagle River  either of which could spell doom.

I was worried a human would get hurt or they would cause an accident, she said.

When she got home, Drury posted to an equestrian group on Facebook about the lost horses. Then, of course, my phone died, she said.

The power was out, so Drury started her car and plugged her phone in there. When it came back on, there were five messages.

Heather Wainamo was picking up her kids and others at school Friday after the quake. After collecting the last of five youngsters at Gruening Middle School, Wainamo spotted the two runaways.

At first, I thought they were moose, she said.

Then she saw the cop. A police car (police spokeswoman Renee Oistad said she doesnt know who the officer was) followed the horses with its lights on in an attempt to keep anyone from hitting them. Wainamo pulled in front of the horses, grabbing Seamus by his long, black hair. The horse seemed to be calming down when a siren sounded nearby.

He started dragging me down the road, Wainamo said.

She had to let go, but she continued giving chase, asking curious neighbors along the way if anyone had a rope. It being Eagle River, someone happened to have one handy, and soon Wainamo managed to get a rope around Charlie. The horse seemed relieved. A 5.7-magnitude earthquake jolted Mataram on Lombok Island, West Nusa Tenggara (NTB), on Thursday morning, triggering panic among residents, most of whom were survivors of multiple earthquakes that rattled the island in August. No casualties were reported.

The Meteorology, Climatology, and Geophysics Agency (BMKG) recorded the earthquake at 9 a.m. local time, with the epicenter located some 23 kilometers to the northwest of Mataram and 10 kilometers in depth.

It did not trigger a tsunami, said BMKG Matarams geophysics station head Agus Riyanto.

He said the tremor could be felt in Mataram and Denpasar in the neighboring province of Bali.

In Labuapi, the tremor was relatively strong. Residents panicked and immediately fled their houses, Ahmad Purnawarman, a resident of Labuapi, West Lombok, said.

A similar scene was also seen in Mataram as most residents rushed to leave buildings as soon as they felt the tremor.

Agus also encouraged residents to stay calm and remain alert for official warnings concerning earthquakes.

Strong earthquakes measuring 7.0 and 6.4 on the Richter scale hit Lombok in August. Authorities recorded at least 469 deaths and 7,773 injuries as a result of the quakes. (swd)

I think he was just glad to have someone, she said.

With Charlie under control, Seamus turned back.

Thats when Richard Beck came along. Hed walked down the street to check on his neighbor and, when he returned to the house hes lived in for 30 years, found an impromptu rodeo.


They were right in front of my house, he said.

Beck went inside to get some tow straps, and soon both Seamus and Charlie were tied to the back of his pickup.

But they werent out of the woods yet. The horses were covered in sweat from their trek and rapidly getting cold.

They were a sweaty mess, Drury said. You have to blanket a horse at that point.

Fortunately, Wainamo and Beck knew that, so Beck went inside to get something to keep the horses warm. Not being a horse owner himself, Beck didnt have any horse blankets. But he did have a Lion King sleeping bag and a fleece blanket with a raven on it.

It took Drury about an hour to get her horse trailer over to Becks house. During that time, Wainamo and Beck patted the animals and kept them calm.

I was just glad they werent jerks, Wainamo recalled.

Wainamo doesnt own horses, either, but would like to someday. I love horses, she said.

When Drury arrived at Becks home, she couldnt help but get choked up at the sight of the retiree next to her horses draped in childrens blankets.

It was so sweet  Richard is standing out in his driveway with these two horses, she said.

Seamus and Charlie are doing fine now.

Weve just been trying to love on them a lot, Drury said.

By Monday, theyd started galloping and frolicking about like normal. The only difference is they seem to have forged a closer bond due to their shared adventure.

This has helped to develop their bond more because they had that buddy system, she said.

A bond has also developed between the Eagle River Valley residents who shared in the horse drama Friday morning.

We owe a lot of people baked goods and beer, Drury said.

That her neighbors sprang into action so quickly came as no surprise to her.

We all look out for each other. The Weston Observatory confirmed that a magnitude 1.9 quake struck about 1 kilometer, or about 0.6 miles, south/southeast from the center of town.

People in the area told WMUR they heard a loud boom, and shaking could be felt in Farmington as well as in Milton, New Durham, Rochester, Wakefield and Lebanon, Maine.

Farmington police said residents all over town reported feeling the quake. No property damage was reported, police said.
﻿A clean-up operation has begun in New South Wales in the wake of violent storms that battered the Australian state.

Police have confirmed the deaths of four people. Three were killed in Dungog, where homes have been washed away by flooding.

An 86-year-old woman died in the Central Hunter region when her car was swept into floodwaters.

Emergency services have declared 12 communities natural disaster areas.

The fierce weather is expected to ease later on Thursday. All severe weather warnings have been cancelled across NSW.

The storm has left some areas devastated, with roads flooded, homes swept away and power poles snapped. 

Emergency Services Minister David Elliott told ABC News that it would be some time before the full cost of the disaster is known.

He said: "There are cells still active off the coast of New South Wales, and indeed the fact that the flood waters may well still increase, means that we won't know the entire cost of this particular disaster for many days to come."

Some 190,000 homes in the state are still without power but state-owned supplier Ausgrid said that electricity had been restored to 30,000 properties.

During the days of stormy weather, parts of NSW experienced more than 30cm (one foot) of rainfall, wind gusts of more than 100km/h (60mph) and waves reaching record heights of 15m (50ft).

On Wednesday, police divers retrieved the body of a missing woman whose car was swept off a causeway in Maitland, near Newcastle.

NSW Police Insp Brian Tracey told ABC News that the incident was a "tragedy" and that her family were devastated.

Two elderly men and an elderly woman have also been found dead in Dungog, one of the worst affected areas. 

The region has been declared a natural disaster area, along with 11 others. These areas will receive special assistance packages in the coming days.

Earlier, rising river levels also threatened more than 200 homes in south-western districts of Sydney and forced residents to evacuate.

The flood risk has eased since then but local media report that it is still a concern to authorities. 

There is still some travel disruption in Sydney, with a number of roads closed due to flooding.

An Anzac day event for 10,000 people in the capital has also been affected. The camping event was due to take place on Friday night but has been postponed because of the stormy weather.

The State Emergency Service (SES) says that it has received more than 12,000 requests for help since the bad weather began on Monday and conducted more than 100 flood rescues.

The Insurance Council of Australia has said that it has received 19,500 claims, with losses estimated at US$100m.﻿More than 3,000 people died in the 1906 San Francisco earthquake. More than 150,000 people were killed in the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami. Nearly 2,000 people were killed in Hurricane Katrina. Society is no stranger to disasters and they have existed as long as Earth has existed.
Natural disasters interrupt society and tear everything apart, devastating countless lives throughout human history. But is this a case of man versus nature?
There has been controversy regarding whether many disasters can truly be considered “natural.” Some have concluded that “natural” disasters are just disasters, while the hazards are considered natural.
The Global Network of Civil Society Organizations for Disaster Reduction (GNDR) states that “a hazard only becomes a disaster at the point where it interacts with society. So whereas hazards are natural, there is nothing natural about a disaster.”
Hurricanes, tornadoes and tsunamis are all natural phenomena that are hazardous, but only become disasters when they interact with society. Just like the philosophical thought of a tree not making any sound if it falls in a forest without people around, a natural phenomenon doesn’t create a disaster if nobody is there to be affected by it. Therefore, it can be said that disasters are not natural events, rather societal.
“I do not believe in natural disasters,” said Dr. Erin Bergren, an assistant professor of environmental studies specializing in disaster research. “I believe that all disaster outcomes are the product of human choices … We tolerate a lot of inequality in our society, and that inequality plays out on the ground in terms of differential disaster impacts.”
According to Bergren, much of the burden of disaster preparedness falls to state and city planning. Many preparation laws or guidelines seem to ignore problematic notions, such as allowing the building of houses and establishments upon floodplains. With a number of disasters appearing in headlines lately, it becomes clear what a human impact has on the level of devastation resulting from a calamitous event.
Bergren said that those most impacted by a storm like Hurricane Matthew are the poorest people living in the least stable housing. She believes that we have made the choice to tolerate substandard housing and income inequality that results in unnecessary human suffering.

    “We tolerate people living in housing that doesn’t stand up to an earthquake or a flood or a tornado or a hurricane and then we’re surprised when they die,” she said.

Bergren also cautions against placing blame upon those who choose not to evacuate in these events. This may include not having a means of transportation or a place to stay, not being able to take their pets with them or being reluctant to leave behind infirm family members.

“Those are not reasons that we should hold against people…they’re vulnerable in these extreme situations and these are levels of social risk that we tolerate as a society.”

Looking past the notions of how we socially situate ourselves within harm’s way comes to another human-made issue: climate change. Human influence over environmental changes has drastically altered the way so-called “natural” disasters even begin to manifest in the first place.

Bergren said that “Disasters are unnatural on multiple levels.” Beyond choices in preparedness and prevention, the lasting effect upon the hydrological cycle means that hurricanes, droughts, floods and tornados are increasing in severity based on human impact.

Assistant Professor of Political Science, Dr. Alyx Mark said, “All disasters are political due to what they require of our political leaders.

    “Disasters become ‘political disasters’ when the public perceives that our politicians are not doing enough to help with regards to mitigation, preparation, response and recovery.”

Disasters are also not considered natural because people create them or are the cause of them. For example, at the University of California, Berkeley, the football stadium was built directly over the Hayward fault line that could potentially lead to future disasters.

Hurricanes have intensified immensely in the last few years due to climate change. Hurricanes thrive off of warm atmospheric temperatures and a rise in sea level, both of which are things that have been caused by human influence and carbon emissions. The intensity and severity of Hurricane Florence and Hurricane Michael can be blamed on human-caused climate change and bureaucratic indifference.

The New York Times’ “Decimated by Hurricanes, Rural America Needs Our Help” stated, “If we stopped building houses next to the ocean, we wouldn’t have these problems.” By moving away from the coast and relocating, the number of people that would be displaced due to damage and danger would decrease and money would be saved.

By not permanently leaving disaster-prone areas, people will inevitably be revictimized by the eventual re-emergence of the hazard, turning it into a disaster. Mark said that people who lack resources are likely living in a place where the risks are unknown because no one has prepared for it and no one has informed these people of the possible dangers of their location.

    “If we have people in positions of power who cannot make these types of investments in preparation or mitigation, I find it difficult to imagine a world where the government would provide the resources to allow people to move somewhere safer,” Mark said.

“The government should allocate more resources to preparing for disasters and mitigating the effects of disasters,” Mark said.
﻿The Indian Ocean tsunami in 2004 killed an estimated 225,000 people in 14 countries, including India, Sri Lanka, Indonesia and Thailand. It was caused by a powerful earthquake near the island of Sumatra, which created waves up to 100 feet high that sped to coastlines around the region.

The tsunami that struck Japan in 2011 was caused by an undersea quake off the country's eastern coast. The quake triggered waves of up to 133 feet along parts of the coast, causing more than 15,000 deaths and damaging the Fukushima nuclear plant.

The most powerful tsunami in the U.S. was caused by a magnitude 9.2 earthquake in Alaska in 1964. It killed 139 people, most not by the quake itself but by the resulting tsunami, which destroyed many buildings along the coast and set fire to oil storage tanks.

Emily Roland, a marine seismologist at the University of Washington in Seattle, said Alaska and the Cascadia region in the Pacific Northwest are especially vulnerable to tsunamis caused by earthquakes near their coasts, while the islands of Hawaii are at risk from tsunamis occurring anywhere in the Pacific Ocean.

People living in coastal areas should be aware of the risk posed by tsunamis — and should heed tsunami alerts, which in the U.S. are issued by the National Weather Service of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).﻿President Barack Obama has toured the flood-ravaged areas of Baton Rouge, Louisiana, where he vowed to help residents rebuild in the coming months.

"We are heartbroken by the loss of life," he said after his tour.

Mr Obama dismissed criticism that he arrived too late and praised state officials for their initial response.

The president also met the family of Alton Sterling and the families of the Baton Rouge police officers killed last month.

Mr Sterling, a black man, was killed at the hands of a white police officer in Baton Rouge.

His death, along with the police killing of Philando Castile in Falcon Heights, Minnesota, stoked racial tensions and led to protests across the country.

Nearly two weeks later, three officers were shot and killed and three more were injured in a shooting near the Baton Rouge police headquarters. The gunman, Gavin Long, was shot dead at the scene.

Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump, who travelled to Louisiana four days ago, and others have criticised Mr Obama for not cutting short his vacation on Martha's Vineyard to visit the devastated areas.

But Mr Obama hit back after meeting with flood survivors, urging Americans to stay focused on helping the state. 

"Let me just remind folks. Sometimes once the flood waters pass, people's attention spans pass. This is not a one-off. This is not a photo-op issue," he said.

Mr Trump fired back on Tuesday, tweeting: "President Obama should have gone to Louisiana days ago, instead of golfing. Too little, too late!" 

The deadly floods, which began on 11 August, have killed at least 13 people and have left more than 2,800 people in shelters.

The president declared a major disaster on 14 August, allowing the state to access federal resources to assist local officials with the clean-up.

The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has already dispensed $127m (£96m) in assistance, according to the president.

"Sometimes when these kinds of things happen, it can seem like too much to bear," Mr Obama added.

"But what I want the people of Louisiana to know is you're not alone, even after the TV cameras leave."

The floods have been described as the worst natural disaster to hit the US since Hurricane Sandy in 2012. 