

"I'm giving an order to update the official number of deaths to 2,975," Governor Ricardo Rossello told reporters on Tuesday.

"This shows the magnitude of the catastrophe," Governor Rossello told El Nuevo Dia newspaper.

San Juan Mayor Carmen Yulin Cruz told the BBC that there had been "neglect" by the Trump administration and some local officials hadn't wanted to confront the president about the need for more aid.

"It seemed like it was better to dance to President Trump's tune than to tell the truth that we were all seeing."

As the region begins the long road to recovery, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe announced that 71,000 buildings have been secured as temporary housing for the flood victims.

“I thought he would be furious about the cockerel, but he just embraced me and told me the only thing that mattered was that I was safe.”Haitian officials on Sunday said at least 12 people died and 188 were injured in a 5.9-magnitude earthquake that rocked the northern portion of the island Saturday, leaving a swath of damaged and destroyed buildings and a fearful population.

If it was a 7, it would have been 40 times stronger than what we saw yesterday or if it was an 8, 900 times stronger, Prpetit told the Miami Herald in an interview from Port-au-Prince where tremors were also felt.

The United Nations and the U.S. Embassy in Port-au-Prince both issued condolence statements while aid organizations announced the deployment of teams into the northwest to determine needs.

The prime minister is working to get all of the documentation, Moise said, so that the government could speak with the international community and the government can tell the international community, Here is what our problems are.

Here are the solutions that we have started to put in place, and if we need help, to tell them in what sense we need it.

Civil Protection volunteer Enrique Gardia told the assembled crowd that a thermal scanner had detected several survivors trapped between slabs of concrete.

One mother, standing nearby waiting for news of her seven-year-old daughter, told reporters: "No-one can possibly imagine the pain I'm in right now."

"To drive away and not know what we would come home to, whether the animals would survive... it was a heartbreaking decision," she told the BBC.

“I didn’t know what a tsunami was… nobody did,” a survivor in the Thai resort town of Khao Lak told TIME ten years later.

Tokyo will play host to the 2020 Olympics, and the event’s organizing committee announced last month that the traditional Olympic torch relay will start from Fukushima to mark the events of 2011 and showcase the region’s recovery.

"As a record heatwave continues to blanket the country, urgent measures are required to protect the lives of schoolchildren," he told a news conference on Tuesday.

Two weeks before the landslide, Bala and his team stood beneath the Sugarloaf Mountain in Regent and told local school students about the dangers of deforestation, of the risks of landslides, of the importance of the peninsula forest in providing clean water for the people.

Reports from the National Centers for Environmental Information have found that climate change plays a major role in causing natural disasters to be more intense, destructive and costly to the country, a National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration spokesperson told ABC News.

Actor Rob Lowe, who lives in Montecito, described it as a “perfect storm of bad events.”

Lowe, who wasn’t home at the time, told the “The Ellen DeGeneres Show” he received a video call from his son, who was at the house.

Megan Clark, the owner of a local toy store, was at work when the water “burst” through, rising from her ankles to her waist in minutes, she told ABC News.

“My heart’s broken when I walk through the town and see it,” Kittleman told “Good Morning America” in May.

Michael sounded like a freight train when it barreled into Panama City with 150 mph winds, resident Jackie Lane told ABC News.

She started driving but “the fire was blowing in so fast.”

“There was sparks and flames hitting the side of my car,” she told ABC News.

Waves gushed into the restaurant as the window glass broke but we are grateful that customers followed evacuation instructions," a hotel employee told AFP.

Rescuers discovered the bodies of 34 students buried in the landslide, Indonesia Red Cross spokeswoman Aulia Arriani told AFP news agency on Tuesday.

It's like a huge bulldozer that clears away the land and afterwards you're left with complete chaos," Timmins told Al Jazeera.

The deaths came as authorities in Northern California announced the death toll from a massive wildfire there has reached 29 people, bringing the statewide total to 31.

Councilman Jefferson Zuma Jay Wagner was injured while trying to save his home, which burned down, Councilman Skylar Peak told reporters Sunday.

Some people in the area are angry they have not yet received help, and say the country's President is only being told about the problems in Palu.

"I will tell you that we are doing everything that we possibly can to identify those remains and make contact with the next of kin."

I will tell you that this weighs heavy on all of us," he said.

We're literally burning the candle at both ends, Daniel Swain, a climate scientist at UCLA and the National Center for Atmospheric Research, told NBC News on Friday.

Marilyn Pelletier got a knock on her door in Paradise as the Camp Fire raged and was told she had five minutes to leave.

The largest was in the town of Gracemere, near Rockhampton, where about 8,000 people were told to go.

"I think the people here have a great heart and a lot of resilience," LaFountain told the Associated Press.

Jackie Rabbit, one of those residents, told Business Insider she got stuck in traffic on her way out of Paradise and had to escape on foot.Rabbit said she could see flames engulfing the road and start coming toward her car.

"I was sitting in my car just screaming, waiting to die, but trying to tell myself, 'OK, it may not look like it to me, but I bet they have this under control,'" Rabbit told Business Insider.

The man was killed after a landslip at Cwmduad in Carmarthenshire, one village is ready to evacuate and people have been told to stay at home.

Replacement bus services are in operation on some affected routes but passengers are advised to check with Arriva Trains Wales' website.Arriva Trains Wales, on its last day of running the rail franchise in Wales, has told passengers: "Due to the severe disruption to train services, lack of available road transport caused by local road conditions, customers are advised not to travel as journey completion cannot be guaranteed.

A contractor told the newspaper that the hole was 40 to 50 feet deep and roughly 250 feet long.

“I’m worried it’s going to come down to my house,” said resident Charlie Gitto told the Tallahassee Democrat.

A tarp covering the roof, insulation spilling out from removed ceiling tiles, and puddles of water can be seen at the post office on Satchwell Street.

"I don’t see it as a dangerous building or anything, but something needs to be done.” Pennsylvania Department of Transportation tells Pittsburgh's Action News 4 more than $2 million in emergency funding has been approved to repair a portion of Hulton Road that is collapsing in Penn Hills.

The mudslide was caused by heavy downpours, Rio's civil defence department head told local media.

The University of Alaska announced it was closing for the day.

In an audio recording posted online, an air traffic controller could be heard telling a FedEx cargo plane to go around -- abort its landing -- as the quake hit.

The Anchorage School District told parents to come pick up their children "when you feel it is safe to do so."

At least a dozen people have been killed so far while a search was ongoing for several others, an official from the provincial disaster office told AFP, refusing to be named.

Panicked residents told of running from their homes as landslides rumbled down nearby mountains.

"It's the worst drought I have seen," Ishaqzai told AFP in August.

The UN is spearheading international efforts to reach 2.5 million of the three million most in need of food by mid-December, UN humanitarian coordinator in Afghanistan Toby Lanzer told AFP previously.

When heavy rains swelled the river in September 1887, it spilled over these dikes into the surrounding low-lying land, inundating 5,000 square miles (12,949 square kilometers), according to "Encyclopedia of Disasters: Environmental Catastrophes and Human Tragedies" (Greenwood Publishing Group, 2008).

He told The State Journal-Register that he will look into whether he can qualify for Medicaid.

"The percentage of fraudulent claims is enormous," he told the Mail on Sunday.

"It is almost inconceivable to think that £50bn was mis-sold," Mr McFarlane told the newspaper.

Prosecuting Alastair Webster QC said the fraudsters used a "fake and cynical brochure which told a series of lies".

Sometimes the young people are told to move the money electronically, and sometimes they are asked to withdraw cash before passing it on in person.

The court was told she gained access to her elderly client's funds by opening an online bank account in his name.

During an interview with police, Laney claimed that the victim gave her his bank card and statements, telling her: "They are going to take everything, spend it all."

The former attorney general of Anguilla, Rupert Jones, told the Guardian the 32m hurricane relief fund was a "drop in the Caribbean Sea".

Mr Santos has faced criticism for the relief effort but told the BBC it was "natural" for those affected by the landslide to blame the government.

"It's very natural that people who are suffering from such a tragedy will be anxious and try to blame someone and of course they would blame the government," Mr Santos told the BBC.

"What I can tell you is that the way we responded, especially how fast we responded, has no precedents in Colombia or in many other disasters in the world."

In at least one neighbourhood facing severe flooding, people are angry that they were told to stay put only to realise, as night fell, that the waters were rising fast and they could not get out.

Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner told residents: "Don't get on the road.

There have also been repeated power cuts since then, including an island-wide one in April, nearly seven months after the hurricane.

Seemingly disoriented 50-year-old electrician Haikaz Hakopian was shown on a hospital bed in the Armenian capital, Yerevan, telling the men's amazing tale of underground survival -- the longest anyone had ever spent beneath earthquake rubble and lived to tell about it.

He added that he had sung songs and told tales to help keep the other five men entertained during their ordeal, dubbed by Soviet news agency TASS the "Leninakan miracle," after the city where it all happened.

That's when Artyom Shahbazian, a reporter for Soviet Armenia's Armenpress news agency, decided to fabricate a remarkable story to refocus global attention on Soviet Armenia's horrific tragedy, three of his former colleagues tell  -- who emigrated to Israel after the break-up of the Soviet Union before his death some three years ago -- was convinced that his countrymen needed his help, they said.

"Western countries had already begun to forget about it," Lyova Azroyan, a longtime Armenpress reporter based in Yerevan, tells RFE/RL.

But Aram Ananian, the current director of Armenpress, tells RFE/RL he knows that Shahbazian was the author.

"I wanted to draw the attention of the world to our misfortune," Dulian told RFE/RL in the run-up to the 30th anniversary of the Armenian earthquake.

It was a mistake that I never repeated in my journalistic career."

He had to tell them the story was a hoax.Shahbazian's equally fictional story of the pickle-eating Hakopian's rescue was seemingly more believable.

TASS reported that it could "neither confirm or deny" the account, and Armenian officials told The New York Times that its branch of the Soviet Health Ministry was trying to "verify the facts and find all of" the six purported survivors.

The central Soviet newspaper Izvestia announced it had been unable to find any of the other men cited by Hakopian as having been rescued and had launched an investigation into the "Leninakan miracle."

Sergei Nazaretian, an adviser to the director of the Armenian National Service for Seismic Protection, tells RFE/RL that the last recorded rescue after the 1988 earthquake was the discovery of a victim 13 days later.

Department spokesperson Shannon McCarthy told USA TODAY on Thursday that crews repaired most major road damage within four days  with before and after photos of an off-ramp near Ted Stevens Anchorage International Airport emerging as a social media sensation.

At least three schools, for instance, announced they will remain closed for the remainder of the school year due to damages.

Bill Walker (I) told reporters the day the quake hit.

UAA announcing Wednesday that its Alaska Airlines Center had broken glass in several trophy cases, plus flooding on the main floor of the arena.

Do it, Ill take the responsibility, Yusuf told the Basarnas personnel.

Im scared, she told The Jakarta Post.

In June, KIRO 7 told you how scientists believed an eruption in Guatemala was very similar to what would happen at Mount Rainier some day, spewing a volcanic lahar forcing evacuations.

This told me the teacher focused on getting the students out as quickly and efficiently as possible when they were evacuated from the school, and did not let them stop for anything.

Reflecting its 102-year commitment to Alaska communities and residents, Wells Fargo & Company (NYSE: WFC) today announced a donation of $250,000 to aid in the recovery and relief efforts resulting from the devastating earthquake and the more than 2,000 aftershocks that have impacted the state.

The light snow cover helped the cracks in the Earth stand out and tell the story.

People in the area told WMUR they heard a loud boom, and shaking could be felt in Farmington as well as in Milton, New Durham, Rochester, Wakefield and Lebanon, Maine.

Emergency Services Minister David Elliott told ABC News that it would be some time before the full cost of the disaster is known.

NSW Police Insp Brian Tracey told ABC News that the incident was a "tragedy" and that her family were devastated.

Mark said that people who lack resources are likely living in a place where the risks are unknown because no one has prepared for it and no one has informed these people of the possible dangers of their location.